Number tossups found: 94977 (questions limited; please download a smaller group of questions or access the API directly)
Number bonuses found: 38137 (questions limited; please download a smaller group of questions or access the API directly)

## TOSSUPS

1.
ID: 118557  | Difficulty:  | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 3
TOSSUP: A poem by this author calls a woman a "thin brown mouse... living all alone/In this cold house" and contrasts her with a woman who "stayed home and scraped life with a fine tooth comb." This author of "Sadie and Maud" set a poem in a "rented back room" inhabited by two women "who have lived their day" and are "Mostly Good", for whom "dinner is a casual affair". In addition to "The (*) Bean Eaters", her works include a collection of poems about a girl growing up in Bronzeville called Annie Allen. Her most famous poem is about a group of pool players at "The Golden Shovel" who "lurk late," "strike straight," "jazz June," and "die soon". For 10 points, name this first African-American Pulitzer Prize winner, the poet of "We Real Cool."
ANSWER:  Gwendolyn Brooks [or Gwendolyn Elizabeth Brooks]

2.
ID: 121740  | Difficulty:  | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature Classical
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 5
TOSSUP: One of Walter Savage Landor's "imaginary conversations" portrays a discussion oflove between this man and Rhodope, his supposed lover. This native of Samos is giventhe power of speech by Isis in a fictional "Romance" named for him. Babrius renderedthis author's work into verse, and the scholar Phaedrus translated this writer intoLatin. In one of this writer's stories, one of the title figures spends the summer singingand in the winter is forced to beg the other for food. This author, probably born a (*)slave, also wrote a story in which the second title figure takes a nap midway through a race and ultimately loses. "The Ant and the Grasshopper" and "The Tortoise and the Hare" are by, for 10 points, what ancient Greek writer known for his fables?
ANSWER: Aesop 

3.
ID: 123908  | Difficulty:  | Category: Geography | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 9
TOSSUP: The waves of the aurora borealis are called "merry dancers in the sky" in a traditional song about this city's "northern lights." The Irish dragoon song "Bonnie Lass of Fyvie" claims that the title character is more beautiful that the many "bonnie Jeans" located in this city.  Two snarling leopards, three white castles, and the motto "Bon Accord" appear on this city's coat of arms. After Lord Burleigh's (*) Covenanter army was smashed at "Two Mile Cross" outside this city, the Marquis of Montrose sacked it in September 1644. The River Don and the River Dee lie on either side of, for 15 points, what "Granite City" on the northeast coast of Scotland?
ANSWER: Aberdeen

4.
ID: 140684  | Difficulty:  | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: Unknown | Round: 3 | Number: 9
TOSSUP: The first isolated aptamers were made of these molecules. These are the molecules that most frequently form stem loops or "hairpins." Amounts of this molecule may be detected and quantified by a Northern blot. One type of this molecule has catalytic capabilities and forms the non-protein part of a snRNP  (" snurp ") . Another type of this molecule is synthesized in the nucleolus and forms the non-protein part of (*)  ribosomes. This molecule carries amino acids to the ribosomes to make proteins. Introns are spliced out of these molecules, which contain uracil. For 10 points, name this class of nucleic acids, the "messenger" variety of which is transcribed from DNA.
ANSWER: RNA  [or  ribonucleic acid s; accept more specific kinds of  RNA , like " tRNA ", " mRNA ", or " rRNA "; accept  ribozyme s; prompt on "nucleic acids"]

5.
ID: 121743  | Difficulty:  | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 8
TOSSUP: Diatomic boron anomalously lacks this property because the increased penetrationof s orbitals leads to s-p mixing. The Landau model explains this property in metals asLorentz interactions in a free electron gas. Molecules with this property form a singlepeak when shot through a Stern-Gerlach apparatus, because their net magneticmoment is zero. Graphite strongly possesses the (*) conventional form of this property,allowing it to be easily levitated. All noble gases have this property because their fully filled p orbitals can match together their opposing spins, cancelling them out. For 10 points, name this property of materials which induce a magnetic field opposite to an exterior magnetic field, in contrast to its para counterpart.
ANSWER: diamagnetism [do not accept "paramagnetism"] 

6.
ID: 123907  | Difficulty:  | Category: Geography | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 8
TOSSUP: The "Spreuer" example of this feature in Switzerland contains Kaspar Meglinger's 17th-century paintings of the Danse Macabre. Examples of these features from Qing Dynasty China include the "stepping toad" and the "eternal celebration." The longest feature of this type in the world, at Hartland in New Brunswick, was damaged by ice in the 1920s. The "Burr (*) arch" is a typical design for these structures, which exist at Kaufman's Distillery, White Rock Forge, and Landis Mill in Lancaster County, Pennsylvania. A 1992 novel by ► Robert James Waller centers on a photographer who is assigned to document these features in Madison County, Iowa. For 10 points, identify this kind of river crossing that is protected from rain and snow.
ANSWER: covered bridges (prompt on "bridges")

7.
ID: 104711  | Difficulty:  | Category: None | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 1
TOSSUP: [missing]
ANSWER: [missing]

8.
ID: 121755  | Difficulty:  | Category: History | Subcategory: History British
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 20
TOSSUP: In the late 19th century, youth gangs in this city known for wearing colorful scarvesand donkey fringes were called the Scuttlers. The Blanketeers were prevented frommarching from this city to protest the suspension of the Habeas Corpus Act. This citywas supplied coal from nearby Worsley via a canal built by the Duke of Bridgewater.The yeomanry of this city killed many people who had come to hear Henry Hunt lecturein (*) 1819. Friedrich Engels' Condition of the Working Class in England was written in this city. A newspaper founded in this city was started in the aftermath of the Peterloo Massacre and is today called The Guardian. For 10 points, name this English city, once the center of the world cotton industry and a rival of Liverpool.
ANSWER: Manchester

9.
ID: 123909  | Difficulty:  | Category: Geography | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 10
TOSSUP: A Dutch merchant named Van Curler was drowned in a storm on this body of water after he mocked the local habit of sacrificing tobacco to "a spirit who controlled the winds." Jasper Cropsey painted the "dawn of morning" and "sunset" on this body of water, whose western shore was a resort destination nicknamed "Millionaire's Row." This lake's southern tip was protected by Fort (*) William Henry, the site of a notable 1757 massacre during the French and Indian War. John Burgoyne tried to bypass this body of water by building a wilderness road from Fort Anne to Fort ► Edward. For 10 points, what upstate New York lake, the southern neighbor of Lake Champlain, was named to honor the Hanoverian monarchs?
ANSWER: Lake George

10.
ID: 122555  | Difficulty:  | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature European
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 4
TOSSUP:  A novel set in one of these places features Thady Quirk, an early example of an unreliable narrator, andwas written by Maria Edgeworth. A group of otherwise-mute travelers are able to only speak with tarotcards in a novel titled for one of these places written by Italo Calvino. The protagonist of a novel titled forone of these structures is assigned the assistants Arthur and Jeremiah and uses the messenger Barnabas inhis many efforts to schedule a meeting with (*) Klamm. That example of these structures is located near theHerrenhof Inn, where a land-surveyor struggles against the endless bureaucratic roadblocks it produces. For 10points, a man named K. tries to enter what type of structure in an unfinished novel by Franz Kafka?
ANSWER: castles [accept Castle Rackrent or The Castle of Crossed Destinies or The Castle or Das Schloss] 

11.
ID: 122553  | Difficulty:  | Category: Geography | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 2
TOSSUP:  A style of arpeggiated lute music from this country has a name that translates to "broken style." A typeof overture named for this country had a slow part in dotted rhythms and a fast fugato part. A composerfrom this country included pieces such as "The Cyclopes" and "The Hen" in his five suites ofharpsichord pieces and wrote Treatise on Harmony. Another included pieces like "The MysteriousBarricades" in his four books of harpsichord pieces and also wrote The (*) Art of Playing the Harpsichord.Opera in this country was founded by an Italian-born composer who died from stabbing himself with a conductingstaff. The bourrÃ©e and gavotte are dances from here. For 10 points, name this country home to the Couperin family,Jean-Baptiste Lully, and Jean-Philippe Rameau.
ANSWER:  France

12.
ID: 122564  | Difficulty:  | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 13
TOSSUP: One person at issue during this event was Charles Maultsby, who veered off-course and got lost. Atelegram whose first three words were "YOUR ACTION DESPERATE" was sent during this event byBertrand Russell. An operation misleadingly codenamed with the place name Anadyr preceded this event,which was chronicled in the memoir Thirteen (*) Days. The claim "I am prepared to wait until Hell freezesover" was made by UN Ambassador Adlai Stevenson during this event, which inspired the creation of a "hotline"between two world capitals. It was resolved when the Americans agreed to secretly remove its Jupiter weapons fromTurkey. For 10 points, name this tense period in 1962 which began when nuclear weapons were discovered in acountry ruled by Fidel Castro.
ANSWER: Cuban Missile Crisis [prompt on October Crisis]

13.
ID: 122563  | Difficulty:  | Category: Religion | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 12
TOSSUP: Soldiers adhering to this religion prayed to a goddess of light and the sun named Marici before battles.People float paper lanterns down a river at the culmination of a three-day summer festival in this religionfor honoring ancestors, called Obon. Atop Mount Hiei, many members of this religion's clergy trained forcombat. Two esoteric schools of this religion, introduced by Kukai and Saicho, were respectively known as(*) Shingon and Tendai. Practitioners of one form of this religion strive to attain an initial insight known as kensho,or satori, and practice the contemplation of statements and questions known as koans. For 10 points, name thisreligion which has blended heavily with Shinto in Japan, where the "Zen" type is particularly popular. 
ANSWER:  Buddhism [accept specific types, such as Zen Buddhism]

14.
ID: 118558  | Difficulty:  | Category: Geography | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 4
TOSSUP: In this modern-day country, the North Korean-trained Fifth Brigade led a four-year-long period of political terror known by a name which translates as "the early rain that washes away the chaff." This country gained its independence after its "Bush War," or Second Chimurenga, which ended with the Lancaster House Agreement. In 1987, Joseph (*) Nkomo, an opposition leader from this country, was coerced into leaving politics after thousands of his supporters were killed in this country's Matabeleland region. The Movement for Democratic Change is the main opposition party in this country, where forced land redistribution targeting whites carried out the ruling ZANU-PF party caused massive hyperinflation during the 2000's. For 10 points, name this African country led by Robert Mugabe.
ANSWER: Zimbabwe [or Republic of Zimbabwe] 

15.
ID: 122558  | Difficulty:  | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 7
TOSSUP:  The historic Hotel Evropa was demolished in the riots following this event. This event was planned bya colonel who had overthrown King Alexander and Queen Draga in a military coup 11 years earlier,codenamed "Apis." During this event, which took place at the northern end of the Latin Bridge, a manbegged Sophie to "live for our children." One of this event's planners failed to commit suicide byswallowing (*) expired cyanide and jumping into a shallow river. It sparked the July Crisis, during which theaggrieved country issued an intentionally unreasonable ultimatum in an attempt to provoke war. This event wasperpetrated by a member of the Black Hand terrorist group named Gavrilo Princip. For 10 points, name this 1914event in Sarajevo that sparked the first World War.
ANSWER: assassination of Franz Ferdinand [accept equivalents that include Franz Ferdinand and the act of killing or murdering him; prompt on partial answers] 

16.
ID: 104712  | Difficulty:  | Category: None | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 2
TOSSUP: [missing]
ANSWER: [missing]

17.
ID: 121750  | Difficulty:  | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Computer Science
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 15
TOSSUP: This entity is partitioned into blocks whose sizes are a power of 2 in the buddymethod. A unit that manages this entity is responsible for converting virtual addressesto physical addresses. This thing can be stored in a "pool" to avoid system calls. In somelanguages, this entity is "marked" as used or unused before it is subsequently"sweeped." The "dynamic" type of this resource is often put on a (*) heap and can beallocated with the "malloc" function in C. To make contiguous pieces of this resource, one might run a "defrag" program. Garbage collection is an automatic process that frees up this resource, which can be "leaked" if it is never freed. For 10 points, name this resource whose "random access" type is a common form of information storage. 
ANSWER: memory [accept virtual memory; accept random-access memory; do not accept or prompt on "hard disk"]

18.
ID: 122554  | Difficulty:  | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 3
TOSSUP:  The key figure in this event said its effect on the world was "like a match lighting a bonfire." Harry F.Knight and Harold Bixby put up much of the funding needed to accomplish this action, which its achieverchronicled just weeks later in a popular memoir entitled "WE". A 25,000-dollar reward from the owner ofthe Lafayette and Brevoort hotels known as the (*) Orteig Prize was awarded for this feat, which relied on anengine known as the Wright Whirlwind. The man who accomplished this feat later became the spokesman for theisolationist America First Committee, and lost his baby a half-decade later to a kidnapper. For 10 points, name thisfeat which ended at Le Bourget field, a 1927 solo aeronautic feat done in The Spirit of St. Louis
ANSWER: Charles Lindbergh's transatlantic flight [or Charles Lindbergh's flight from New York to Paris; or the first transatlantic flight; or the first flight from New York to Paris; or the first flight from North America to Europe; accept winning the Orteig Prize before "Orteig"] 

19.
ID: 123905  | Difficulty:  | Category: Geography | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 6
TOSSUP: This structure's owner changed its name to reflect this structure's status upon completion in 1963, but it has since changed its name to reflect a geographic area. Located off 153rd Avenue SE, this structure is about 5 miles from a competitor for its current title, which is just three feet  (*) shorter. This structure had one of its titles taken away by a similar edifice in Warsaw, and was later surpassed by the Burj Khalifa, despite that being a building and this structure solely broadcasting Channel 11 to the Red River Valley. For 15 points, name this structure, a TV tower near Blanchard, North Dakota, currently the tallest manmade structure in the Western Hemisphere and formerly the tallest in the world.
ANSWER: KVLY-TV mast (or tower)

20.
ID: 118562  | Difficulty:  | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 8
TOSSUP: A few months after this conflict, two belligerents quarreled over the sinking of the Eilat. Gunnar Jarring's peace mission after this war partly failed due to the "three no's" of the Khartoum Resolution. After losing this war, a leader ceded power to his vice-president Zakaria Mohieddin, but popular support drew him back to office. UN Security Council Resolution 242 dealt with the territorial exchanges in this war, which began with an attack on 25 different (*) airfields after the Straits of Tiran were closed. In this conflict, the Sinai Peninsula and the Gaza Strip were seized from Gamal Abdel Nasser's Egypt. This war was fought six years prior to the Yom Kippur War. For 10 points, name this 1967 victory for Israel over its Arab enemies, concluded in less than a week.
ANSWER: Six-Day War [or June War; or Third Arab-Israeli War; or 1967 Arab-Israeli War until mentioned] 

21.
ID: 121746  | Difficulty:  | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 11
TOSSUP: This poet described floating in the ocean, seeing a butterfly overhead, andreminiscing about his dead wife in the poem "Amphibian." The narrator of anotherpoem by this man claims "man's reach should exceed his grasp, or what's a heavenfor?" That narrator dreams of working on one of the "four great walls in the NewJerusalem" alongside Rafael and Leonardo while painting his wife Lucrezia. Otherartworks in this man's poetry include a bronze statue of (*) Neptune taming a seahorse cast by Claus of Innsbruck and placed near a painting of a woman who "liked whate'er she looked on." The narrator of a dramatic monologue by this poet killed his wife because she had "a heart too soon made glad." For 10 points, name this poet of "Andrea del Sarto" and "My Last Duchess."
ANSWER: Robert Browning

22.
ID: 122559  | Difficulty:  | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 8
TOSSUP:  Joseph Koch decorated four rooms devoted to this author in the Villa Massimi. A character created bythis author bites his own fingers as he's embraced by some naked youth in a sculpture by Jean-BaptisteCarpeaux. He's not FranÃ§ois Villon, but this author provided the source material for a sculpture of anelderly former model who stares at the ground titled The Old Courtesan, and for the Atlas-like man in thesculpture (*) I Am Beautiful. A man bites the bow of a ship as this author, wearing a red hood, recoils in horror inan 1822 painting by Eugene Delacroix titled for his "barque." In a sculpture inspired by this author, a man holds hishand to his chin in a thinking pose. For 10 points, name this author whose work inspired Rodin's The Gates of Hell.
ANSWER:  Dante Alighieri [or Durante degli Alighieri]

23.
ID: 123901  | Difficulty:  | Category: Geography | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 2
TOSSUP: This substance replaced mineralized bone in the Addyman plesiosaur specimen and in the thighbone of a brachiosaur discovered underneath Lightning Ridge. Miners of this substance live in underground homes called "dugouts" at the field beneath the Stuart Range at the town of (*) Coober Pedy, whose name is supposedly an Aboriginal word for "white man's hole in the ground." At least eighty percent of the world's production of this mineral comes from South Australia, although the "Mexican  ► fire" variety of this mineral is mined in the state of Queretaro. For 10 points, name this amorphous form of silica, the traditional birthstone for the month of October.
ANSWER: opals

24.
ID: 102889  | Difficulty:  | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 2
TOSSUP: This ruler was the last to employ architect Domenico da Cortona, who worked in the Loire valley to build the Chateau of Chambord to this ruler's specifications. This European ruler's navy besieged the city of Nice at the same time as the pasha Hayreddin Barbarossa. An anti-Catholic notice was covertly placed outside this man's bedchamber in the Affair of the Placards.This man met with an English monarch at a lavish meeting organized by Cardinal Wolsey, the Field of the Cloth of Gold. This man was captured at Pavia after his alliance with Suleiman the Magnificent brought the Ottoman Empire into western European politics. For 10 points, name this Valois king of France, a rival of Charles V of Spain who patronized Leonardo da Vinci.
ANSWER: Francis I Valois [or Francois I; prompt on Francis]

25.
ID: 118560  | Difficulty:  | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 6
TOSSUP: A bar being dragged down a metal rail by a constant external force may have an exponential decrease in its velocity because of this law. This equation explains how skin and proximity effects create eddies that heat up metals. A commutator and a rotating solenoid are used to generate power in a common application of this equation. This law gives the magnitude of the step-up or step-down in voltage from a (*) transformer. This law has a minus sign as a consequence of Lenz's law. It sets the electromotive force equal to the negative time derivative of the B flux through a current loop. For 10 points, name this equation giving the induced voltage from a change in magnetic field, the only one of Maxwell's equations named for an English scientist.
ANSWER: Faraday's law of induction 

26.
ID: 121752  | Difficulty:  | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 17
TOSSUP: A player of this instrument hypothesized that a "third sound" could be heard whentwo real tones sounded at the same time in an effect called a "difference tone." JeffreyKalberg titled Chopin's Prelude No. 27 after a difficult sonata for this instrument andcontinuo whose larghetto affettuoso first movement is in 12/8 time. A set of pieces forthis instrument dedicated to "all artists" includes a piece in which it imitates the hornand flute; that piece is called "The Hunt." Giuseppe (*) Tartini's "Devil's Trill" sonata is forthis instrument. Beethoven's Kreutzer Sonata is written for piano and this instrument. Demanding techniques like double-stops frequently appear in an Italian virtuoso's twenty-four caprices for this instrument. For 10 points, identify this primary instrument played by NiccolÃ² Paganini.
ANSWER: violin

27.
ID: 121754  | Difficulty:  | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 19
TOSSUP: This sort of object provides the surname of an innkeeper who owns a mysterioussmoked-over oil painting and tells the protagonist that another character is outpeddling shrunken heads. In the first chapter of the novel in which he appears, thatprotagonist describes finding himself stopping before warehouses full of these objects.A character climbs into one of these objects with an idol named Yojo after falling (*) illwith a fever and later decorates it with carvings. A canoe-like object of this sort is reworked by a carpenter into a life-buoy. One of these objects made by Queequeg emerges from a whirlpool after the Pequod sinks. For 10 points, Moby Dick ends with Ishmael floating on what sort of object, usually used to store dead bodies?
ANSWER: coffins [prompt on canoes, buoys, or sea chests]

28.
ID: 122557  | Difficulty:  | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 6
TOSSUP:  In 2008, Giulio Pozzo substituted a biprism for these objects in a single-electron experiment firsthypothesized by Richard Feynman. The intensity distribution from a single one of these objects in theFraunhofer setup is proportional to the sine squared of half the phase shift. A grating contains a largenumber of them. The distance (*) between these objects, multiplied by the sine of the angular distance theta, willbe either a half-integer or whole-integer multiple of the wavelength. According to complementarity, it's impossibleto ascertain which of these things a photon passed through. For 10 points, name these objects which diffracted lightonto a screen in an experiment conducted by Thomas Young.
ANSWER: double slits

29.
ID: 121751  | Difficulty:  | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 16
TOSSUP: A field marshal who ruled this country set up a system of local government called"Basic Democracies" and began a war with an infiltration operation codenamedGibraltar. This country later launched Operation Chengiz Khan to start a war ended bythe Simla Agreement. In 1953, rioters in this country called for the Ahmadiyyah sect tobe declared non-Muslim. In this country, a referendum about an Islamization programwas used to extend the term of (*) Zia al-Huq by five years. This nation launched the Kahuta Project to develop nuclear weapons under Zulfikar Ali, the father of a prime minister killed by a bomb in 2007. This country's "Great Leader," Mohammed Ali Jinnah, was its first post-partition leader. For 10 points, name this country once led by Benazir Bhutto.
ANSWER: Pakistan

30.
ID: 123904  | Difficulty:  | Category: Geography | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 5
TOSSUP: This fate was met by Jai Mahal in Jaipur around 1610, and Dana was one of four towns in central Massachusetts disincorporated due to meeting this fate. Triton Logging is working in central Ghana to recover hardwood trees that have met this fate. Celilo Falls along the (*) Oregon/Washington border was destroyed in this process. The former homes of millions living within and to the east of Chongqing met this fate, as did the original site of  ► Egypt's Abu Simbel temple, upriver from the city of Aswan. For 10 points, name this fate met by the land that existed where Lake Mead is today.
ANSWER: being submerged by the construction of a dam/creation of a reservoir [accept "flooded," "inundated," or any other equivalent for "submerged", prompt on just "submerged" etc] [answer must show knowledge of flooding being manmade]

31.
ID: 123906  | Difficulty:  | Category: Geography | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 7
TOSSUP: Peter Sahlins's 1991 book about this feature discussed the use of blue, red, and "no color" markings in the region of the "two Cerdanyas." One area near this line is where Aranese is spoken, and this line completely surrounds the town of Llivia. This line's western end is near the towns of Irun and Hendaye. Those cities are along the (*) Bidasoa River. Pico de Aneto is located just to the south of this line. One area along this line, Pheasant Island, is located just inland from the ► Cantabrian Sea and is controlled for alternating six-month periods by the two countries that define this line. For 10 points, Andorra briefly interrupts what border where the Treaty of the Pyrenees was signed?
ANSWER: border between France and Spain (accept equivalents; prompt on "The Pyrenees" before "this line")

32.
ID: 121747  | Difficulty:  | Category: Geography | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 12
TOSSUP: At a 1974 press conference, Arno Peters decried one of these things as racist. UTM isa commonly-used set of sixty of these entities. The amount of error induced in theseentities are depicted by the size and shape of Tissot's indicatrices. Depending on theposition of an imagined light source, certain varieties of these things may be gnomonic,stereographic, or orthographic. (*) Waldo Tobler designed a family of hyperelliptical equal-area ones, and conformal types of these representations preserve angles locally. One of these representations was criticized for inflating areas at high latitudes, causing Greenland to appear as large as Africa. For 10 points, name these ways of transforming coordinates from the surface of a globe onto a plane, such as the Mercator. 
ANSWER: maps [or map projections] 

33.
ID: 118561  | Difficulty:  | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 7
TOSSUP: These people often earned funds for traveling through the credit-ticket system. The citizenship of a child of two members of this ethnicity was confirmed via the jus soli concept in an 1898 Supreme Court case. The Six Companies catered to people of this ethnicity, who were the subject of the Geary Act. These people were the target of the Rock Springs massacre and were initially attracted by (*) "Gold Mountain". People of this ethnicity benefited from the Magnuson Act of 1943 which largely repealed the 1875 Page Act. Large numbers of them worked on the Central Pacific Railroad. They were taxed by California's Anti-Coolie Act. For 10 points, name these people whose entry to the United States was restricted through a namesake "Exclusion Act".
ANSWER: Chinese-Americans [or Chinese immigrants to the United States] 

34.
ID: 140696  | Difficulty:  | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: Unknown | Round: 3 | Number: 19
TOSSUP: One piece in this genre and number was played every year for Hitler's birthday by Wilhelm Furtwängler. In the last movement of that piece in this genre and number, the orchestra "tries" out the the themes of the previous three movements between cello-bass recitatives. That D-minor work in this genre and number is from 1824 and includes lyrics like "Be (*)  embraced, you millions!" and "daughter from Elysium." Since composers like Bruckner and Mahler died after or around writing pieces in this genre and number, it is said to be "cursed." For 10 points, a choral version of "Ode to Joy" ends Beethoven's piece of what genre and number?
ANSWER: ninth symphonies  [accept obvious equivalents that include both the number  nine  and the genre symphony ; accept  curse of the ninth ; accept specific ninth symphonies like  Beethoven's ninth ] <J

35.
ID: 122556  | Difficulty:  | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 5
TOSSUP:  In prokaryotes, this process is down-regulated by the binding of GATC sequences to SeqA. During thisprocess, three molecules of PCNA act as a "sliding clamp" holding an enzyme to its substrate. Thisprocess starts at regions denoted "ori," and is performed by an enzyme that yields the Klenow fragmentwhen cleaved. By growing E. coli in media with the 14 and 15 isotopes of nitrogen, the (*) Meselson-Stahlexperiment demonstrated that this process was semiconservative. In this process, which takes place during the Sphase of the cell cycle, the enzyme ligase I joins Okazaki fragments on the lagging strand, which diverges from theleading strand at this process's namesake fork. For 10 points, name this process of making two identical copies ofone DNA molecule. 
ANSWER: DNA replication

36.
ID: 123902  | Difficulty:  | Category: Geography | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 3
TOSSUP: Description acceptable. A paper by Urribarri, Rios, and Ferrer hoped that treatment with ammonia would allow this process to be used as a source of raw vegetable protein for the feeding of livestock. Pollution with poliaspartic acid and disruption of the hypolemnitic cone have been suggested as causes of this phenomenon, which may result in lower (*) oxygen levels that threaten the curbina fishery. Researchers at the University of Zulia blamed ships from Florida or Texas for starting this phenomenon by transporting an  ► invasive species of genus Lemna. For 10 points, what bloom of aquatic plants threatens the ecological health of a certain lake in western Venezuela?
ANSWER: duckweed infestation of Lake Maracaibo (accept equivalents)

37.
ID: 118556  | Difficulty:  | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 2
TOSSUP: This species was infected by the PtERV1 retrovirus four million years ago, possibly causing a speciation event. Before she was moved to a namesake facility in Ellensburg, Washington, a female one of these animals was cared for by Allen and Beatrix Gardner and later by Roger Fouts. Some of these animals placed stalks of grass in termite holes to "fish" for termites, and formed (*) troops that cannibalized rivals. One of them named Washoe was the first non-human to learn ASL, inspiring research of one of these animals with a name punning on "Noam Chomsky." These animals share the genus Pan with bonobos, and groups of them were studied in Gombe by the primatologist Jane Goodall. For 10 points, name these great apes more closely related to humans than gorillas.
ANSWER: chimpanzees [or Pan troglodytes; prompt on great apes before it is read; prompt on primates before "primatologist" is read] 

38.
ID: 159339  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Philosophy | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet E (Penn State B, Berkeley A, and Harvard A) | Number: 20
TOSSUP: In a work titled for this idea’s “conceptual practice,” Reinhart Koselleck argues that a “concrete” form of it is produced by the interplay of “spaces of experience” and “horizons of expectation.” The title essay of a 2002 book by Ian Hacking applies this concept to the field of ontology. This concept involves the use of “emplotment” via romance, satire, comedy, or tragedy, according to a book by Hayden White titled for its “meta” form. The “scissors-and-paste” form of this concept is criticized in a book that instead encourages approaching it through “re-enactment.” That work by R. G. Collingwood is titled for The Idea of [this concept]. The universalizing of Western liberal democracy, according to the title of a book by Francis Fukuyama, represents the “end of” this concept. For 10 points, name this discipline practiced by Eric Hobsbawm and Herodotus.
ANSWER: history [accept The Conceptual Practice of History or Historical Ontology or Metahistory or The Idea of History or The End of History and the Last Man] &lt;Philosophy&gt;

39.
ID: 159390  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet H (Cambridge B, Berkeley B, Columbia B, and Cornell) | Number: 8
TOSSUP: The Alsos Mission was led by a former security officer on this project, Boris Pash. After the conclusion of this project, a leader of it was called a “cry-baby” by the sitting President. Berkeley professor Haakon Chevalier was accused of trying to obtain secret information about this project. The Y-12 complex was built for this project, which also used Stagg Field in its early days. Klaus Fuchs was a double agent who worked for this program, which was encouraged by a letter written by Leo Szilard (“LAY-oh SIL-ard”). The head of this program claimed that he thought of the Bhagavad Gita verse “I have become death, the destroyer of worlds” during a test codenamed Trinity. The Los Alamos Laboratory was the site of, for 10 points, what program, managed by Robert Oppenheimer, that produced the world’s first nuclear bomb?
ANSWER: Manhattan Project [or Development of Substitute Materials] &lt;American History&gt;

40.
ID: 159348  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet F (Yale A, Gettysburg A, and Iowa) | Number: 8
TOSSUP: According to legend, a female rebel leader on this island could catch bullets in her buttocks and fart them out again. Enslaved Akan people on this island were known as Coromantees. Hundreds of slaves made a last stand at this island’s Fort Haldane during Tacky’s Rebellion, one of the largest slave revolts before the Haitian Revolution. This island was seized from the Spanish in a 1655 invasion led by Robert Venables (“VEN-uh-bulls”) and William Penn. Cudjoe and Nanny led escaped slaves on this island in fighting Europeans. In 1692, a city on this island known as the “wickedest city on earth” was completely wiped out by an earthquake and tsunami. Henry Morgan used this island’s city of Port Royal as a base of operations. For 10 points, name this island whose current capital is Kingston.
ANSWER: Jamaica &lt;World History&gt;

41.
ID: 159505  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet M (Columbia A, Wesleyan, and Chicago A) | Number: 18
TOSSUP: An author with this surname wrote a play in which the mystery writer Andrew Wyke suggests an elaborate plan involving Milo burgling some jewels, entitled Sleuth. At the climax of a play by an author with this surname, a character causes another character to break down by saying “The Lord thy God is a jealous god” and repeating “He sees you!” An Alexander Pushkin play inspired that author with this surname to write a play in which a man unsuccessfully tries to kill himself with a razor, confessing that he poisoned the title character. In a play by an author with this surname, a teenager uses a steel spike to blind Nugget and its companions. A playwright with this surname wrote about Dr. Martin Dysart, a child psychiatrist who investigates Alan Strang’s religious obsession with horses. For 10 points, identify this surname of Peter, the playwright behind Amadeus and Equus.
ANSWER: Shaffer [accept Anthony Shaffer or Peter Shaffer] &lt;British Literature&gt;

42.
ID: 159398  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature European
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet H (Cambridge B, Berkeley B, Columbia B, and Cornell) | Number: 16
TOSSUP: A play by this author ends with a declaration about “the spirit of truth and the spirit of freedom.” The protagonist of another play by this author gives a speech denouncing the “compact majority,” which he considers to be antithetical to truth and freedom, and compares a party to a “sausage machine” that mashes different people together into mincemeat. Mrs. Busk reluctantly fires the daughter of that protagonist of a play by this author. The main character’s young son stows away on the dangerously unseaworthy ship the Indian Girl in a play by this author about a shipyard owner named Bernick. In another play by this author, a report stating that the water at a newly opened spa is contaminated earns Dr. Stockmann the hatred of the townspeople. For 10 points, The Pillars of Society and An Enemy of the People are by what Norwegian playwright?
ANSWER: Henrik Ibsen [or Henrik Johan Ibsen] &lt;European Literature&gt;

43.
ID: 159388  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet H (Cambridge B, Berkeley B, Columbia B, and Cornell) | Number: 6
TOSSUP: This composer adapted his first ballet, Happiness, into another ballet in which a man threatens to throw his child Ripsime (“rip-SEE-meh”) off a cliff. In the middle section of an excerpt from that ballet by this composer, the cellos and saxophone play a sinuous melody that opens with the rising pickup quarter notes F, A-flat, B-flat before landing on B-natural. That excerpt by this composer is heard during a triple wedding whose couples include Karen and Nune [pause] and Kazakov and the title character. During an Adagio from one of this composer’s ballets, the title character and his wife Phrygia celebrate escaping from captivity. An excerpt from one of this composer’s ballets includes trombone glissandi from F down to D and opens with piercing F-sharp eighth notes in the xylophone. For 10 points, name this Soviet composer of Spartacus, whose ballet Gayane (“gah-yah-nay”) contains the “Sabre Dance,” and who was from Armenia.
ANSWER: Aram Khachaturian [or Aram Il’yich Khatchaturian] &lt;Other Arts&gt;

44.
ID: 159375  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet G (Cambridge A, Carleton College A, and Penn A) | Number: 14
TOSSUP: Tenax is a polymer that is particularly good at this process, which is why it’s used in purge and trap methods. The reverse of this process is modeled using Arrhenius kinetics via the Polanyi–Wigner equation. An equation used to model this process has the same mathematical form as the Michaelis–Menten equation and assumes that all sites for this process are equivalent. Industrial nitrogen generation often uses the “Pressure-Swing” variety of this process. Brunauer, Emmett, and Teller expanded a simpler model of this process to account for multiple layers. That model describes this process in isothermal conditions and is the Langmuir (“LANG-myoor”) model. Zeolites and charcoal are commonly used to facilitate this process thanks to their high surface areas. For 10 points, name this process in which gaseous or liquid molecules bind to a surface but are not absorbed.
ANSWER: adsorption [or adsorbing; do not accept or prompt on “absorption” or “absorbing”] &lt;Chemistry&gt;

45.
ID: 159407  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Religion | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet I (OSU A, Rice A, and Yale B) | Number: 4
TOSSUP: In one story, God punishes a pioneer of this concept by causing him to fart nonstop after he refuses to protect a calf from slaughter. A 16th-century book on this topic borrows chapter titles like “The Path of Life” and “The Stone of Help” from an earlier work with four divisions known as the Tur for short. Experts on this concept who were active during the reign of the Abbasids developed the field of responsa literature and were called geonim (“gay-oh-NEEM”). Works on this concept are particularly difficult to print due to the use of folio pages featuring several nested levels of text. A work whose name translates as the “Set Table” is considered to be the authoritative work on this topic. The original basis of this system is a set of 613 mitzvot (“meets-VOTE”) drawn from the Torah. For 10 points, name this collection of written law whose primary sources include the Talmud.
ANSWER: halakha [or halakhic law; accept Jewish law; accept Talmudic law until “Talmud”; accept rabbinic law; accept “jurisprudence” in place of “law” in any of the previous answers; prompt on law or jurisprudence] (The works are Arba‘ah Turim and Shulchan Aruch.) &lt;Religion&gt;

46.
ID: 159429  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature World
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet J (Texas A, Oxford B, UIUC C, and Maryland B) | Number: 5
TOSSUP: A character in this play calls Mr. Kempston’s comic books “mental pollution” and throws them away before being hit by a slop rag. A character in this play remembers a picture of a bikini-clad Rita Hayworth that “always made him hot and bothered when he looked at it.” That character in this play is impressed by another man’s knowledge about Joe Louis’s knockout of Max Schmeling. Two characters in this play agree that Alexander Fleming was a “man of magnitude.” A character in this play tries to write an essay that imagines a “world without collisions.” In this play, the phrase “You can’t fly kites on rainy days” is used to insult Sam, who dances to Sarah Vaughan with Willie at the end of this play. For 10 points, name this play about Hally’s relationship with two African servants, written by Athol Fugard.
ANSWER: “Master Harold” …and the Boys &lt;World Literature&gt;

47.
ID: 159414  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet I (OSU A, Rice A, and Yale B) | Number: 11
TOSSUP: An assassination attempt on this leader injured several astronauts riding in a limousine with him. War with China nearly broke out under this man’s leadership in the Zhenbao Island border dispute. This leader’s best-selling trilogy of memoirs, beginning with The Minor Land and Rebirth, was likely ghostwritten, since his health was rapidly declining when they were published. This leader kissed Erich Honecker in a “fraternal embrace” that was depicted on the graffiti painting My God, Help Me Survive This Deadly Love. This leader’s premier Alexei Kosygin spearheaded a series of economic reforms that promoted limited decentralization. This man’s namesake doctrine permitted the Soviet Union to intervene to prop up Communist regimes, justifying the invasion of Afghanistan and the invasion of Czechoslovakia in 1968. For 10 points, name this Soviet premier who succeeded Nikita Khrushchev.
ANSWER: Leonid Brezhnev [or Leonid Ilyich Brezhnev] &lt;European History&gt;

48.
ID: 159443  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Computer Science
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet J (Texas A, Oxford B, UIUC C, and Maryland B) | Number: 19
TOSSUP: Maged (“MAG-ed”) Michael proposed a “hazard” version of these objects to overcome the shortcomings of shared lock-free objects. A smart version of this data type implements traits like “drop” and is useful for programing with concurrency. Lawson is credited with introducing this data type in the language PL/I (“P-L-one”). The calloc (“CAL-uck”) and malloc (“MAL-uck”) functions return a variable of this type. Deallocation can result in dangling examples of these variables, which can lead to a segmentation fault. Defining one of these variables in C can be done using an asterisk, which is also the symbol used when dereferencing a variable of this type. For 10 points, name these variables that specify a location in memory.
ANSWER: pointers [accept hazard pointers or dangling pointers] &lt;Other Science (Computer Science)&gt;

49.
ID: 159496  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Religion | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet M (Columbia A, Wesleyan, and Chicago A) | Number: 9
TOSSUP: The founder of this movement challenged the founder of Zion, Illinois, to a prayer duel and declared himself the victor after his opponent died before he did. In one country, members of this religious movement are specifically persecuted by Ordinance XX, which prohibits them from passing as members of the majority religion. One belief of this religious movement is that Jesus survived his crucifixion and died after traveling east in search of the Lost Tribes of Israel. Unique among Muslims, members of this movement believe that its founder, the constructor of the White Minaret, was a herald of the seventh age of mankind. This movement separates jihad into Greater Jihad, Great Jihad, and Smaller Jihad, and states that the violent Smaller Jihad is no longer justified. For 10 points, name this religious movement which has its origins in present-day Pakistan and was founded by Mirza Ghulam.
ANSWER: Ahmadiyya [or Ahmadi Muslims] &lt;Religion&gt;

50.
ID: 159440  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Religion | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet J (Texas A, Oxford B, UIUC C, and Maryland B) | Number: 16
TOSSUP: In one holy text, to determine exactly which of these animals will be sacrificed, a series of questions is answered about its age, color, and character. One of the hymns of the Yasna Haptanghaiti offers prayers to one of these animals, which is usually assumed to be the same as one of Ahura Mazda’s six primordial creations named Gavaevodata. In the Book of Numbers, the water of purification is made out of the ashes from the sacrifice of one of these animals to cleanse those who had touched a corpse. Isaiah prophesies (“PROFF-uh-sighs”) that this animal will “graze with the bear.” A description of the parting of the Red Sea and the injunction to fast during Ramadan are found in a surah named after this animal, as is the Throne Verse. For 10 points, the Quran’s longest surah is named after what animal which is venerated in Hinduism?
ANSWER: cow [accept cattle, heifer, etc.] &lt;Religion&gt;

51.
ID: 159438  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet J (Texas A, Oxford B, UIUC C, and Maryland B) | Number: 14
TOSSUP: A book by this author ends with the hope that “a world that sensitive and timid natures could regard without a shudder” would emerge. This author’s autobiography conspicuously fails to mention his wife Marian, nicknamed “Clover,” whose suicide devastated this man. This author contrasts his narrow possibilities with the open future of his friend Clarence King in a book in which he refers to himself in the third person. This author’s visit to the 1900 World’s Fair inspired him to contrast traditional religious values, represented by the Virgin Mary, with technological progress, represented by the dynamo. This author reflected at length on two medieval cathedrals in his book Mont Saint Michel and Chartres (“shart”). For 10 points, a 1918 autobiography details the “education” of what author, who was descended from two presidents?
ANSWER: Henry Adams [or Henry Brooks Adams] &lt;American Literature&gt;

52.
ID: 159434  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet J (Texas A, Oxford B, UIUC C, and Maryland B) | Number: 10
TOSSUP: The POUND mnemonic is used to diagnose these events. It’s not epilepsy or seizures, but when these events last longer than 72 hours, they are called “status” and are treated with injections of dihydroergotamine (“di-hydro-er-GOT-uh-meen”). Mutations in ATP1A2 or CACNA1A cause the familial hemiplegic form of these events. Prophylactic medications for these events include beta-blockers, topiramate, and valproic acid. The monoclonal antibody eptinezumab targets the CGRP receptor to prevent these events. A group of medications that target 5-HT1B and 5-HT1D receptors are used to abort these events; those medications are triptans. These events can be preceded by scintillating scotoma or other visual auras. These events usually occur with photophobia and phonophobia. For 10 points, name these severe headaches often associated with light and sound sensitivity.
ANSWER: migraines [or status migrainosus; prompt on headache] &lt;Biology&gt;

53.
ID: 159487  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet L (Delaware, UCSD A, and Amherst A) | Number: 21
TOSSUP: This leader controversially placed a wreath in a cemetery honoring SS members in Bitburg. In a presidential campaign, this man declared “I believe in states’ rights.” After the Symbionese Liberation Army demanded the distribution of food following the kidnapping of Patty Hearst, this man joked about a botulism outbreak contaminating the food. This leader blasted the Soviet Union after the shooting down of Korean Airlines Flight 007. This president authorized the overthrow of Hudson Austin in Operation Urgent Fury, the invasion of Grenada. This president’s Secretary of State declared “I am in control here” after a failed assassination attempt on his life by John Hinckley. This president’s reputation was boosted after he ended the Iran Hostage Crisis. For 10 points, name this president throughout most of the 1980s.
ANSWER: Ronald Reagan [or Ronald Wilson Reagan] &lt;American History&gt; Bonuses

54.
ID: 159413  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet I (OSU A, Rice A, and Yale B) | Number: 10
TOSSUP: This composer’s Stabat Mater, a motet scored for unaccompanied Double Chorus, may have been written for Pope Gregory XIV. One treatise on counterpoint is presented as a dialogue between Aloysius, who represents this composer, and the student Josephus; that textbook, which promoted this composer’s compositional style, is the Gradus ad Parnassum by Johann Joseph Fux (“fooks”). This composer wrote a cycle of 29 motets based on excerpts from the Song of Solomon. In an opera [emphasize] about this composer, he initially refuses to take a commission from Cardinal Borromeo, who then imprisons him. This composer’s most famous piece is a missa sin nomine (“MEE-sah seen NOH-mee-nay”) that, according to legend, convinced the Council of Trent not to ban polyphony from worship. For 10 points, name this Italian Renaissance composer of the Pope Marcellus Mass.
ANSWER: Giovanni Pierluigi da Palestrina &lt;Music&gt;

55.
ID: 159285  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet C (MSU A, NYU B, UCLA A, and Virginia A) | Number: 8
TOSSUP: A ruler of this kingdom collected twelve idols called sampy and domesticated zebu cattle for consumption in a festival sometimes called the Royal Bath. In this kingdom, accused criminals were declared guilty if they did not vomit three pieces of chicken skin after ingesting poison extracted from the tangena nut. Free commoners of this kingdom were called Hova, which names two expeditions that overthrew this kingdom’s monarchy. Joseph-François Lambert was given control of all natural resources in this kingdom through a charter that would later be used to justify its annexation by France. This kingdom was ruled by two kings named Radama and three queens named Ranavalona. For 10 points, name this African kingdom that ruled from its capital at Antananarivo.
ANSWER: Kingdom of Madagascar [or Merina Kingdom; or Kingdom of Imerina] &lt;World History&gt;

56.
ID: 159387  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature World
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet H (Cambridge B, Berkeley B, Columbia B, and Cornell) | Number: 5
TOSSUP: This author wrote about Juan’s suspicions that Frau Marta is a vampire preying on English tourists in a subplot of a novel set in “the Zone” and “the City.” One of this author’s characters searches for what he calls “the kibbutz of desire.” The narrator throws his house key in the sewer after fleeing his house with his knitting-obsessed sister Irene in this author’s short story “House Taken Over.” This man expanded his character Morelli’s literary musings into a novel subtitled “A Model Kit.” In a novel by this author, Osip Gregorovius nearly seduces Lucía, to the dismay of the protagonist, a member of a Parisian bohemian circle called the Serpent Club. That novel by this author, about Horacio Oliveira and his lover La Maga, can be read in two different orders. For 10 points, name this Argentine writer of Hopscotch.
ANSWER: Julio Cortázar [or Julio Florencio Cortázar] &lt;World Literature&gt;

57.
ID: 159381  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet G (Cambridge A, Carleton College A, and Penn A) | Number: 20
TOSSUP: This poem’s main character remarks of “how all things fade and perish” before painting a number of symbols, including white and dark circles representing Life and Death. At the end of this poem, people say “Farewell forever!” to the main character before various natural phenomena also wish him farewell. After failing to kill a man wearing an apparently magical shirt, the protagonist of this poem is told to shoot him on the top of his head by a woodpecker. Like Alhalla by Henry Rowe Schoolcraft, whose research informed this poem, this poem imitates the Kalevala in its use of trochaic (“tro-KAY-ick”) tetrameter. This poem takes place “by the shores of Gitche Gumee (“GITCH-ee GUM-ee”),” which is an Ojibwe (“oh-JIB-way”) name for Lake Superior. For 10 points, name this epic poem about a lover of Minnehaha, written by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow.
ANSWER: The Song of Hiawatha &lt;American Literature&gt;

58.
ID: 159382  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet G (Cambridge A, Carleton College A, and Penn A) | Number: 21
TOSSUP: On March 30, 1949, this country was rocked by nationwide protests against it joining NATO. This country was occupied by British forces during World War II after it was invaded in Operation Fork. The “Match of the Century” between Boris Spassky and Bobby Fischer was held in this country in 1972. This country submitted to the authority of a foreign king in the “Old Covenant” of 1262. In 1986, Mikhail Gorbachev and Ronald Reagan met at a summit in this country’s capital city that eventually resulted in the signing of the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty. Disputes over fishing rights between this country and Britain led to the Cod Wars. This country’s parliament is the oldest in the world, meeting since 930, and is called the Althing. For 10 points, name this island nation whose capital is Reykjavík.
ANSWER: Iceland [or Republic of Iceland; or Ísland] &lt;European History&gt; Bonuses

59.
ID: 159310  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Philosophy | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet D (NYU A, Rutgers A, Michigan A, and Oxford A) | Number: 12
TOSSUP: This two-word phrase ends the title of a work that contrasts “truths of reason” with contingent “truths of fact” that require experience to learn. That work titled for this phrase describes a block of veined marble that marks out the shape of Hercules in order to argue that innate ideas take the form of “inclinations” and “natural potentialities.” A different work whose title contains this two-word phrase claims that “mixed modes” depend on the combination of several ideas, as opposed to “substances.” The character of Theophilus defends the ideas of Leibniz in a work by Leibniz titled for “new essays” on this phrase, which is itself a chapter-by-chapter refutation of a work whose title ends with this phrase. A distinction between primary and secondary qualities and a description of the mind at birth as a “tabula rasa” were advocated by John Locke in, for 10 points, An Essay Concerning what two-word phrase?
ANSWER: human understanding [accept New Essays on Human Understanding or An Essay Concerning Human Understanding; accept Nouveaux essais sur l’entendement humain] &lt;Philosophy&gt;

60.
ID: 159351  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet F (Yale A, Gettysburg A, and Iowa) | Number: 11
TOSSUP: A 1941 editorial that coined a name for one of these things asks “whose Dong Dang, whose Democracy?” and calls for a turn to pro-American internationalism. A speech sometimes titled “The Price of Free World Victory” pairs Franklin Roosevelt’s Four Freedoms with “four duties” needed to achieve a “people’s” one of these things. Helen Hunt Jackson criticized forced removals of Native Americans in a book titled for one of these things “of Dishonor.” In a 1942 speech, Henry Wallace countered Henry Luce’s vision of an “American” example of these time periods by calling for one “of the common man.” The French phrase “fin de siècle” (“fan duh s’YECK-luh”) typically denotes the transition from the 19th to the 20th one of these in the Common Era. For 10 points, name these time periods of 100 years.
ANSWER: century [or centuries; accept American Century or “century of the common man” or A Century of Dishonor] &lt;American History&gt;

61.
ID: 159336  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet E (Penn State B, Berkeley A, and Harvard A) | Number: 17
TOSSUP: Anthony Giddens argues that performing this practice in the afternoon declined due to an acknowledgment that it was distinct from the “progressive deprivation of rights.” A recent book by David Garland analyzes the persistence of this practice after a series of Supreme Court cases in the 1970s that assessed “weighing” and “non-weighing” approaches to it. A book opens with a description of how this practice was applied to Robert-François Damiens (“dahm-YEN”), and argues that disorder of its public form led to a push to privatize the use of “sovereign power.” Gregg v. Georgia outlined the procedures that state courts must follow in order for this practice not to violate the Eighth Amendment, ending a moratorium on it established by Furman v. Georgia. For 10 points, name this punishment normally carried out in the United States through lethal injection.
ANSWER: capital punishment [or the death penalty; or execution; accept more specific answers, such as hanging, being put to death, public execution, etc.] (The book is Foucault’s Discipline and Punish.) &lt;Social Science&gt;

62.
ID: 159366  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet G (Cambridge A, Carleton College A, and Penn A) | Number: 5
TOSSUP: A messianic spiritual leader of this ethnic group who developed a semi-syllabic script for its language is known as the “Mother of Writing” despite being a man. The Department of Justice alleged that Harrison Jack, along with members of this ethnic group in the US, conspired to attempt a coup in another country in 2007. Many refugees from this ethnic group were relocated to Merced (“mur-SED”), California. A child suffering from epilepsy was the focus of a book about a culture clash between American doctors and an overseas community of these people, who believed that the child suffered from a condition translated roughly as “the spirit catches you and you fall down.” Vang Pao led a mass exodus of these people after they were threatened with “extermination to the last root” during the Secret War by the Pathet Lao. For 10 points, name these mountain people of Southeast Asia.
ANSWER: Hmong people [accept Miao] &lt;World History&gt;

63.
ID: 159454  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet K (Northwestern A, Oregon, Maryland A, and Auburn A) | Number: 9
TOSSUP: A variant of a Greek key motif named for its resemblance to a jelly roll is most common in proteins found in these structures. Tagged RNA affinity purification relies on the binding of stem-loops with a protein found in this structure in MS2. A fourth-generation test for a particular pathogen relies on detecting a 24-kilodalton protein found in one of these structures. George Smith invented a technique where peptide libraries are fused to a protein found in this structure in M13 as a way to evolve tight binders. The three proteins that compose this structure are symbolized VP1, VP2, and VP3 in a common gene therapy vector. A triangulation number, commonly one, three, or seven, characterizes the shape of these structures, which are often icosahedra composed of hexamers and pentamers. A lipid envelope surrounds this structure in HIV. For 10 points, name this structure that encases a virus’s genetic material.
ANSWER: viral capsid [or viral coat protein; prompt on virus or bacteriophage or shell; do not accept or prompt on viral “envelope”] &lt;Biology&gt;

64.
ID: 159458  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet K (Northwestern A, Oregon, Maryland A, and Auburn A) | Number: 13
TOSSUP: The visibility of the insides of two black hats in a painting by this artist reveals the presence of a second mirror behind two men, who themselves must be situated behind the viewer. In that painting, this artist depicted a man with his hands in his pockets standing in front of a velvet banquette (“bang-KET”) and a large mirror in the title establishment. This painter depicted his brother standing in front of an orange-cushioned armchair with his back to the viewer and looking out over a balcony in another painting. A bottle of wine sits to the right of the three shirtless title figures who work on their knees to strip a floor in a work by this artist. The foreground of this man’s best-known painting shows a couple sharing an umbrella while walking over wet cobblestones. For 10 points, name this French painter of The Floor Scrapers and Paris Street, Rainy Day.
ANSWER: Gustave Caillebotte (“kye-BUT”) (The two unnamed paintings are In a Café and Young Man at His Window.) &lt;Painting&gt;

65.
ID: 159474  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet L (Delaware, UCSD A, and Amherst A) | Number: 8
TOSSUP: The speaker of this poem hears “four voices of four hamlets round” in the first of this poem’s three sections set on Christmas. The last section of this poem takes place “thrice three years” after its start and depicts the wedding of its author’s sister. This poem, which names a type of ABBA (“A-B-B-A”) stanza in iambic tetrameter, starts with an invocation to the “strong son of God, immortal love.” One of this poem’s cantos, which depicts something that “with ravine, shrieked against God’s creed,” is often taken as a meditation on evolution. This poem is the source of the phrases “nature, red in tooth and claw” and “’Tis better to have loved and lost than never to have loved at all.” For 10 points, name this poem by Alfred, Lord Tennyson written after the death of Arthur Henry Hallam.
ANSWER: “In Memoriam A.H.H.” &lt;British Literature&gt;

66.
ID: 159439  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet J (Texas A, Oxford B, UIUC C, and Maryland B) | Number: 15
TOSSUP: Applying the WKB method to the rovibrational energy levels of these systems gives the Dunham coefficients. A potential used to model these systems was modified by Coxon, Le Roy (“luh roy”), and Dattani to model long-range inverse power behavior; that potential contains one minus an exponential, all squared, times the well depth. Vibrational Raman spectroscopy of these systems displays O, Q, and S branches. The anharmonicity of these systems is well-modeled by the Morse potential. The D-infinity-h and C-infinity-h point groups contain these molecules. They have 3 translational and 2 rotational degrees of freedom, giving them an adiabatic index of seven-fifths. The rotational energy of these systems is modeled using a simple linear rotor. The mnemonic HOFBRINCL (“hoff-brinkle”) is used to remember elements that naturally exist in this form. For 10 points, name these molecules that consist of two atoms.
ANSWER: diatomic molecules [prompt on dimers or molecules or linear molecules; prompt on harmonic oscillator or quantum harmonic oscillator or HO or QHO; prompt on anything suggesting a molecule consisting of two atoms] &lt;Chemistry&gt;

67.
ID: 159401  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Religion | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet H (Cambridge B, Berkeley B, Columbia B, and Cornell) | Number: 19
TOSSUP: A classic manual on performing this action was written by Ibn al-Jazari. In South Asia, this action is uniquely performed with the pani patti method. Important scholars of this task had their writings distributed by disciples known as rawi. According to the hadith, people who are particularly adept at this task have the ability to intercede and bring up to 10 people to heaven. The addition of nunation increased the ease of performing this task properly. In order to perform this action correctly, adherents obey the rules of tajweed. An individual who can perform this action perfectly from memory is known as a hafiz. For 10 points, name this action performed by Sunnis during nightly Ramadan prayers, the reading of a holy text in Arabic.
ANSWER: reciting the Quran [or reading the Quran; or qira’at; prompt on memorizing the Quran] &lt;Religion&gt;

68.
ID: 159427  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet J (Texas A, Oxford B, UIUC C, and Maryland B) | Number: 3
TOSSUP: Lynden-Bell proposed that one form of this process results in the stability of density waves under the Jeans wavelength. Taking the Laplace transform and integrating the linearized Vlasov–Poisson equation predicts one type of this process, which can also be thought of as phase mixing of van Kempen modes. That process of this type is analogized to a moving surfer slightly ahead of or behind a wave, and is the inverse of the two-stream instability. Longitudinal plasma waves experience one form of this phenomenon proposed by Landau. Adding resistance to a resonant circuit results in this process, which decreases the maximum displacement of an oscillator. For 10 points, name this process in which waves or oscillations lose energy, resulting in an exponential decrease in amplitude.
ANSWER: wave damping [accept Landau damping of plasma waves; prompt on anything indicating losing energy or dissipation] &lt;Physics&gt;

69.
ID: 159468  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature World
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet L (Delaware, UCSD A, and Amherst A) | Number: 2
TOSSUP: In a novel whose title ends with this word, John unexpectedly confesses his love to the protagonist after she is hit in the head with a rock by a mob of striking workers. Victoria Ocampo published a literary magazine of this name. This is the last word in the title of a trilogy of novels that includes Love and War and Heaven and Hell, written by John Jakes. In a novel whose title ends with this word, Margaret Hale moves from her rural home to the poverty-stricken industrial town of Milton. In a short story of this title, a man gashes his forehead while carrying a copy of the Arabian Nights up the stairs and later gets in a knife fight with a gaucho, possibly in a septicemia-induced fever dream; that story is by Jorge Luis Borges (“BOR-hays”). For 10 points, name this word which is paired with “north” in the title of an Elizabeth Gaskell novel.
ANSWER: south [accept Sur or “El Sur”] &lt;Other Literature&gt;

70.
ID: 159475  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet L (Delaware, UCSD A, and Amherst A) | Number: 9
TOSSUP: Benjamin Latrobe and William Strickland competed to design the headquarters for an institution of this type in Philadelphia. In 1811, Stephen Girard bought one of these institutions and made himself its sole proprietor to take advantage of a legal loophole. A political cartoon depicts one of these institutions as a “many-headed monster” with its leader as one of the heads in a top hat. After the demise of one of these institutions, a number of them called “wildcat” sprung up taking advantage of lax regulations. A Maryland state tax on one of these institutions led to a court case that established the existence of implied powers. Nicholas Biddle was the final president of a federal one of these institutions. Andrew Jackson fought against, for 10 points, what institutions which loan credit and store money?
ANSWER: banks [accept Banks of the United States; accept wildcat banks; accept pet banks] &lt;American History&gt;

71.
ID: 159464  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature European
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet K (Northwestern A, Oregon, Maryland A, and Auburn A) | Number: 19
TOSSUP: This writer used the term “mattress-grave” for the bed that he was confined to for the last eight years of his life due to a mysterious paralytic illness. This author, who coined the word “Lisztomania,” wrote about a man “seized with a savage woe” who’d “rather look up at the mountain than down at the rocks below” in a poem that was set to music by Liszt. An otherwise minor play by this author is the source of the quote “Where they burn books, in the end they will also burn human beings.” This author described his journey from Paris to Hamburg in a long poem subtitled “A Winter’s Tale,” and also alluded to Shakespeare in the subtitle of a satire about an escaped dancing bear. In a short lyric poem, this author of Atta Troll described a golden-haired maiden on the Rhine who lures sailors to their deaths. For 10 points, name this German expatriate poet of “Die Lorelei” (“dee LOH-ruh-lie”).
ANSWER: Heinrich Heine (“HY-nuh”) [or Christian Johann Heinrich Heine] &lt;European Literature&gt;

72.
ID: 159489  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet M (Columbia A, Wesleyan, and Chicago A) | Number: 2
TOSSUP: This element’s oxide and nitric acid are used to oxidize acetaldehyde to glyoxal in a common laboratory synthesis, the simplest example of the Riley oxidation. Compounds in which this element is doubly bound to a carbon atom are short-lived via spontaneous oligomerization. A phenyl halide derivative of this element is used to add to carbanions (“car-BAN-eye-ons”), and is then eliminated to form alpha-beta unsaturated carbonyls. Deiodinase enzymes and glutathione peroxidase contain this element in their active site. An amino acid containing this element is coded for by UGA, which is normally the stop codon, when a SECIS element is present in mRNA. For 10 points, name this metalloid that replaces sulfur in derivatives of cysteine and methionine, with atomic number 34 and symbol Se.
ANSWER: selenium [accept Se until read] &lt;Chemistry&gt;

73.
ID: 159498  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet M (Columbia A, Wesleyan, and Chicago A) | Number: 11
TOSSUP: In a talk that this scientist gave for an American Physical Society meeting, he proposed reversing the lenses of an electron microscope so that the entire Encyclopedia Britannica could be written on the head of a pin. That talk by this scientist is called “There’s Plenty of Room at the Bottom,” and according to Eric Drexler inspired the field of nanotechnology. Each term in the perturbative Dyson series is represented by a construct developed by this physicist. Those constructs named for this physicist represent contributions to the S matrix from different path types, where vertices correspond to particle interactions. For 10 points, name this Caltech physicist who developed namesake diagrams used in the path integral interpretation of quantum mechanics.
ANSWER: Richard Feynman [or Richard Phillips Feynman] &lt;Physics&gt;

74.
ID: 159485  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet L (Delaware, UCSD A, and Amherst A) | Number: 19
TOSSUP: A character created by this author decides to give a nun “the freedom to follow her own destiny” and declares that “everyone is a nun” after having a mystical experience. That character created by this author pretends to be the great-nephew of a French painter in order to work for a Japanese-Canadian couple’s correspondence art school. In another story by this author, a character who calls his wife “Miss Spiritual Tramp of 1948” is yelled at for looking at a woman’s feet in an elevator. In a story by this author of “De Daumier-Smith’s Blue Period,” a man shoots himself at a Florida hotel after taking Sybil Carpenter to look for the title aquatic creatures. For 10 points, name this author who wrote about the death of Seymour Glass in “A Perfect Day for Bananafish” and who also wrote The Catcher in the Rye.
ANSWER: J. D. Salinger [or Jerome David Salinger] &lt;American Literature&gt;

75.
ID: 159463  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet K (Northwestern A, Oregon, Maryland A, and Auburn A) | Number: 18
TOSSUP: John Church loaned participants in one of these events specially-rigged objects that were made by Wogdon and Barton; one of those participants may have attempted to “delope” during that event of this type. The title of a book by Joanne B. Freeman about “national politics in the new republic” alludes to these events. California Senator David Broderick turned into a hero after he died following one of these events near San Francisco’s Lake Merced (“mur-SED”). A common rendezvous (“RON-day-voo”) point for these events was Bloody Island in the Mississippi River between Missouri and Illinois. One of these events occurred after the Albany Register published Charles Cooper’s letters. A participant in one of these events in Weehawken, New Jersey, later died at the house of William Bayard. For 10 points, name these events, one of which resulted in Aaron Burr killing Alexander Hamilton.
ANSWER: duels [prompt on affairs of honor] &lt;American History&gt;

76.
ID: 159511  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet N (MIT, UIUC A, and Virginia Tech) | Number: 3
TOSSUP: During this dynasty, a compilation of surnames in a common quatrain rhyming scheme, called the Hundred Family Surnames, was composed. A detailed map of China’s coast and rivers with a grid superimposed onto it was carved into a stele (“STEE-lee”) in Xi’an (“shee-ahn”) during this dynasty. A popular general from this dynasty who was executed after Qin Hui (“cheen hway”) betrayed him was named Yue Fei (“y’weh fay”). After the Humiliation of Jingkang ended this dynasty’s Northern era, this dynasty moved capitals from Kaifeng (“kye-fung”) to Hangzhou (“hong-joe”) to avoid Jurchen raids. After it lost the six-year-long siege of Xiangyang (“sh’yong-yong”), the last remnants of this dynasty were defeated at the Battle of Yamen (“ya-mun”) by the forces of Kublai Khan. For 10 points, name this dynasty that invented gunpowder but was nevertheless defeated by the Mongols.
ANSWER: Song Dynasty &lt;World History&gt;

77.
ID: 159526  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet N (MIT, UIUC A, and Virginia Tech) | Number: 18
TOSSUP: One group decided to oppose this military campaign when Ludwig Yorck von Wartenburg signed the Convention of Tauroggen. Three decades before Matthew Sankey created his first Sankey diagram, a “flow map” depicting six variables related to this campaign used line thickness to represent the number of soldiers in it. “Berezina” became a synonym for catastrophe among the instigators of this military campaign, since they suffered heavy losses while crossing the Berezina River. This campaign came to a climax at a battle in which attacks on the Bagration (“ba-gra-tee-OWN”) flèches (“flesh”) and the Raevsky Redoubt led to heavy losses on invading forces. Over 600,000 soldiers started this campaign but only 27,000 returned, many dying of cold during the retreat. For 10 points, the Battle of Borodino was part of what military campaign in which a country led by Alexander I was invaded by Napoleon?
ANSWER: French invasion of Russia [or Patriotic War of 1812; accept Napoleon’s invasion of Russia until “Napoleon” is read; accept invasion of Russia after “Napoleon” is read; accept Second Polish War; prompt on Russian Campaign; prompt on Napoleonic Wars or Polish-Russian Wars] &lt;European History&gt;

78.
ID: 159509  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet N (MIT, UIUC A, and Virginia Tech) | Number: 1
TOSSUP: Vacuum polarization results from a pair of particles with this property screening charges. Particles with this property are responsible for the non-zero parts of the propagator outside the light cone. Particles with this property are said to be “off-shell” because they do not satisfy the normal energy–momentum relations, and they are often described as vacuum fluctuations in quantum fields. In one formulation, Hawking radiation results from particles of this type being “boosted” by the gravitation of a black hole. The lifetime of these particles is limited by the uncertainty principle. A wavy line between two vertices in a QED diagram corresponds to a photon with this property. For 10 points, name this type of particle that produces forces when they are exchanged by ordinary particles and are sometimes said to “pop in and out of existence.”
ANSWER: virtual particles [accept off-shell particles or off-mass-shell particles until read; prompt on gauge bosons or photons by asking “what characteristic do those particles have in this situation?”] &lt;Physics&gt;

79.
ID: 159431  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Philosophy | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet J (Texas A, Oxford B, UIUC C, and Maryland B) | Number: 7
TOSSUP: This book imagines Frederick Myers being placed in the position of determining whether “Charles’s Wain,” the “Great Bear,” or the “Dipper” is the constellation name that represents the most worthy addition to the “flux.” This work italicizes the “fication” in the word “verification” to emphasize its claim that truth is a process that “happens to an idea.” This book’s first section features two columns contrasting “rationalistic” and “intellectualistic” people with “empiricist” and “sensationalistic” people to describe the warring temperaments of the “tender-minded” and “tough-minded” in philosophy. This book relates an anecdote about a debate that deals with a man circling a squirrel by noting that it depends on what “going round” the squirrel “practically means” to illustrate its title method. For 10 points, name this work subtitled for a “new name for some old ways of thinking” by William James.
ANSWER: Pragmatism: A New Name for Some Old Ways of Thinking &lt;Philosophy&gt;

80.
ID: 159417  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet I (OSU A, Rice A, and Yale B) | Number: 14
TOSSUP: A mocking prayer printed on white cardboard and addressed to this character asks his soul, body, blood, and tears to respectively “glorify,” “nourish,” “intoxicate” and “wash me.” This character is instructed to teach his audience to pray “Give us this day our daily stone” in a chapter titled for him “and the Dead Pan.” After singing an obscene version of “Mary Had a Little Lamb” with Steve and Jud, he kills a lamb with a stone in a dream sequence following the description of an ivory Christ that he pulled off its crucifix and nailed to the wall. In the last chapter, he “Has a Religious Experience” ended by a gun hidden in a newspaper, carried by a cripple he tries to heal. This man, who is killed by Peter Doyle for sleeping with his wife, also sleeps with the wife of his irreligious editor Shrike. For 10 points, name this columnist for the Post-Dispatch with a feminine moniker who titles a Nathanael West novel.
ANSWER: Miss Lonelyhearts &lt;American Literature&gt;

81.
ID: 159418  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet I (OSU A, Rice A, and Yale B) | Number: 15
TOSSUP: Note to moderator: Read the answerline carefully. W. Arthur Lewis proposed a namesake “turning point” after which a certain form of this phenomenon temporarily occurs in developing countries. This phenomenon often results from the ways in which certain managers work with “soft budget constraints,” according to a work by János Kornai (“YAH-nos KOR-nye”) titled for the “economics” of this phenomenon which argues that it is a permanent feature of socialist economies. A large-scale form of this phenomenon [emphasize] was not the root cause of a 1943 event in Bengal that killed three million people, according to a book by Amartya (“ah-MAR-chia”) Sen that instead blames it on panic buying and an unaffordable rise in the cost of rice. This phenomenon often encourages the spread of black markets for the goods it affects. For 10 points, name this economic phenomenon in which the demand for a good exceeds its available supply.
ANSWER: shortage [accept specific types, such as labor or food shortages; accept scarcity and The Economics of Shortage; accept famines until “soft budget constraints” is read, then prompt after; accept excess demand until “demand for a good exceeds” is read] (The Sen book is Poverty and Famines.) &lt;Social Science&gt;

82.
ID: 159419  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Philosophy | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet I (OSU A, Rice A, and Yale B) | Number: 16
TOSSUP: This book’s ideas provide the basis for a recent work of feminist philosophy by Charlotte Witt that argues in favor of “gender uniessentalism” (“yoo-nee-essentialism”). This work notes the superfluous nature of the phrase “footed two-footed animal” to argue that chains of “differentia” can be replaced by the last “differentia.” This work uses the example of a person with their eyes closed to illustrate the state of dunamis, or “potentiality,” which can transition to one of “actuality.” A thing’s “substance” is proposed to be “the primary cause of its being” in the final part of this work’s best-known section, Book Zeta. The name of this work, which opens with the phrase “All men by nature desire to know,” is often seen as an indication that its later compilers intended it to be read after its author’s works on natural science. For 10 points, name this work on “first philosophy” by Aristotle.
ANSWER: Metaphysics [or Metaphysica] &lt;Philosophy&gt;

83.
ID: 159524  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Other
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet N (MIT, UIUC A, and Virginia Tech) | Number: 16
TOSSUP: An artist created a series of ten square one-and-a-half meter canvases, including one titled for how this city “was all gold,” for a 1961 exhibition in this city titled Art and Contemplation. A modern art museum in this city is housed in the former home of the American heiress Peggy Guggenheim. James Whistler painted his Nocturne in Blue and Silver during an extremely productive period of time in this city following his lawsuit against John Ruskin, who himself wrote a three-volume study of this city’s architecture. The workshop of Giovanni Bellini was located in this city, which gives its name to a “school” of artists that includes Giorgione (“jor-JO-nay”) and Tintoretto. Before he moved to England, Canaletto produced a number of incredibly accurate large-scale vedute (“veh-DOO-tay”) of, for 10 points, the Piazza San Marco and the Grand Canal in what Italian city?
ANSWER: Venice [or Venezia; accept Venice Was All Gold and The Stones of Venice] &lt;Painting&gt;

84.
ID: 159422  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature European
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet I (OSU A, Rice A, and Yale B) | Number: 19
TOSSUP: In the months after the atomic bombing of Japan, this author created a darker version of one of his plays in collaboration with the actor Charles Laughton. In that play by this author, the title character’s daughter Virginia dies of dysentery (“DISS-en-TAIR-ee”) in a convent after being unable to find a husband. This author explained an acting technique that he called the gestus in his essay “A Short Organum for the Theater.” A play by this author ends with a copy of the Discorsi being smuggled out of Florence by Andrea Sarti. This dramatist popularized the “alienation effect,” exemplified by the stark scenery of a play in which Anna Fierling loses her children during the Thirty Years’ War. For 10 points, name this German author of Life of Galileo and Mother Courage and Her Children who was the main proponent of “epic theater.”
ANSWER: Bertolt Brecht [or Eugen Berthold Friedrich Brecht] &lt;European Literature&gt;

85.
ID: 159518  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet N (MIT, UIUC A, and Virginia Tech) | Number: 10
TOSSUP: The second movement of a sonata for this instrument, marked Cantilena, opens with the piano playing a slow, rising B-flat minor arpeggio in eighth notes one beat before this instrument starts the same arpeggio. The Coolidge Foundation commissioned that sonata for this instrument, whose first movement in E minor is marked Allegro malinconico, from Francis Poulenc (“frawn-SEESE poo-LANK”). Jacques Ibert (“ee-BAIR”) wrote a concerto in D major for this instrument for Marcel Moyse (“moh-EEZ”), and the Paris Conservatoire commissioned a D major concertino for this instrument by Cécile Chaminade (“say-SEEL sha-mee-NOD”). Georges Barrère’s platinum model of this instrument inspired Edgard Varèse’s (“ed-GARR vah-REZ’s”) piece Density 21.5. This instrument played by Jean-Pierre Rampal and James Galway begins with descending and ascending chromatic notes in the Prelude to the Afternoon of a Faun. For 10 points, name this woodwind instrument, the larger sibling of the piccolo.
ANSWER: flute &lt;Music&gt;

86.
ID: 159512  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Other
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet N (MIT, UIUC A, and Virginia Tech) | Number: 4
TOSSUP: This architect used a hollow concrete shaft with a diameter of 4.5 meters to support a ten-story pod in his guy-wire-supported Torre de Collserola (“TORR-uh the cool-suh-RAW-luh”). One of his buildings incorporates a cast-stone base designed by Joseph Urban and features a “diagrid” façade that forms huge concave corner window structures known as “bird’s mouths.” This architect designed the world’s tallest bridge, the Millau (“mee-YO”) Viaduct, as well as Manhattan’s Hearst Tower. He placed a mirror-paneled cone surrounded by two helical ramps under a cupola (“KYOO-puh-luh”) that he added to a building that was wrapped by Jean-Claude and Christo before its 1990s reconstruction. Swiss Re (“ree”) is the primary occupant of a skyscraper he designed at 30 St Mary Axe that is popularly known as “the Gherkin.” For 10 points, name this British high-tech architect who restored the Reichstag (“RIKE-stog”).
ANSWER: Norman Foster [or Norman Robert Foster; or Baron Foster of Thames Bank] &lt;Other Arts&gt;

87.
ID: 159502  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature European
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet M (Columbia A, Wesleyan, and Chicago A) | Number: 15
TOSSUP: A song in this language ends with the vocalist singing “ha-ha-ha” down the F-sharp Phrygian scale. That song in this language, which describes the absurd friendship between a king and an insect, was inspired by the scene in Faust of Mephistopheles visiting Auerbach’s cellar. In the first song of a cycle in this language, a “babysitter” lullabies a sick child into eternal sleep; the final song of that cycle personifies Death as a field marshal. This language was used for “The Song of the Flea” and Songs and Dances of Death. In an aria in this language, a character implores “Let me perish, but first…” before writing an impassioned love letter. In that opera in this language, which includes the “Letter” aria, the title character initially rejects Tatyana and later kills Lensky in a duel. For 10 points, name this language used in the opera Eugene Onegin and in songs by Modest Mussorgsky.
ANSWER: Russian &lt;Music&gt;

88.
ID: 159499  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature World
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet M (Columbia A, Wesleyan, and Chicago A) | Number: 12
TOSSUP: An author with this surname wrote a novel in which a construction crew uncovers a pit from which the sound of a bell ringing had emerged, freeing a two-foot-tall figure of the title character. In a novel by another author with this surname, a pole vaulter and his girlfriend Anemone search Toxitown for a substance called DATURA. An author with this surname wrote a novel in which Aomame (“ah-oh-MAH-meh”) meets Tengo in an alternate reality with two moons. This surname is shared by the authors of Coin Locker Babies and Killing Commendatore, the latter of whom also wrote a novel in which Toru recalls his relationships with Naoko and Midori after listening to the title Beatles song. For 10 points, give this surname shared by the novelists Ryu and Haruki, the latter of whom wrote 1Q84 (“one-Q-eighty-four”) and Norwegian Wood.
ANSWER: Murakami [accept Ryu Murakami or Haruki Murakami] &lt;World Literature&gt;

89.
ID: 159508  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet M (Columbia A, Wesleyan, and Chicago A) | Number: 21
TOSSUP: The Arruda–Boyce model describes incompressible materials with one form of this property. Another form of this property comes from the transformation between austenite and martensite phases and is possessed by shape-memory alloys. One type of this property exemplified by the Mooney–Rivlin solid can be modeled by setting a linear combination of invariants of the B tensor equal to the strain energy density. In the simplest model of this property, the Cauchy stress tensor is only a function of the deformation gradient. This term describes constants derived from the stress-strain curve, as well as a type of deformation that occurs before plastic deformation. Young’s modulus quantifies this property for a material. For 10 points, identify this term for the property possessed by materials described by Hooke’s law.
ANSWER: elasticity [accept hyperelasticity, pseudoelasticity, superelasticity, Cauchy elasticity] &lt;Physics&gt; Bonuses

90.
ID: 159488  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet M (Columbia A, Wesleyan, and Chicago A) | Number: 1
TOSSUP: A fortress captured in this war was strategically built on a sharp horseshoe bend and protected with chain booms and contact mines called “torpedoes.” After a fifteen-year-old colonel in this war was killed, his mother covered his body and asked “Is this the civilization you have promised?” Executions were carried out by lance towards the end of this war because ammunition was scarce. The capture of the river fortress of Humaitá was a turning point in this war. The “Deed of December” was an ambitious passage through the Chaco region during this war engineered by the Duke of Caxias (“kah-SHEE-ahss”). Over 90 percent of the losing country’s male population died during this war, which was started by the invasion of Mato Grosso by dictator Francisco Solano López. For 10 points, name this war in which Paraguay lost to a namesake alliance of Argentina, Brazil, and Uruguay.
ANSWER: War of the Triple Alliance [accept Paraguayan War before “Paraguay” is read] &lt;World History&gt;

91.
ID: 159480  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet L (Delaware, UCSD A, and Amherst A) | Number: 14
TOSSUP: Mark Meadow argues that this painting’s use of thematic clusters was informed by the treatise Copia: Foundations of the Abundant Style. This painting [emphasize] does not include written words, a departure from a similar print by Frans Hogenberg. Near the center of this painting, a stork dips its head into a pitcher while sitting across a table from a fox. In this painting, a woman puts a blue cloak on her husband, an act that gives this painting its alternate name. In the lower right of this painting, a man fails to stretch his arms to reach two loaves of bread, an image intended to evoke the idea of struggling to live within a budget. This painting uses a high vantage point to depict a number of street scenes, similar to its artist’s depiction of The Fight Between Carnival and Lent. For 10 points, name this painting by Pieter Bruegel (“BROY-gull” or “BRUH-hull”) the Elder, in which peasants act out literal depictions of Dutch idioms.
ANSWER: Netherlandish Proverbs [or Nederlandse Spreekwoorden; accept The Blue Cloak until read] (Copia is a treatise by Erasmus.) &lt;Painting&gt;

92.
ID: 159479  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet L (Delaware, UCSD A, and Amherst A) | Number: 13
TOSSUP: Quantum analogs to classical systems with this property exhibit scars corresponding to unstable orbits, and the inverse participation ratio can be used to quantify the extent to which a quantum system has this property. Bunimovich (“BUN-im-oh-vitch”) studied a “billiards” table with rounded ends that exhibits this property. The detailed structure of the first recurrence map for a system is used to determine if it has this property. This property is characterized by positive Lyapunov exponents, meaning infinitesimally close trajectories grow exponentially apart in phase space. This property is exemplified by a set of three ordinary differential equations describing atmospheric convection that exhibit a Lorenz attractor, as well as physical systems like the double pendulum. For 10 points, name this property of systems that exhibit extreme sensitivity to initial conditions, sometimes called the butterfly effect.
ANSWER: chaos [or chaotic dynamics; accept ergodicity or word forms until “first recurrence map” is read] &lt;Physics&gt;

93.
ID: 159447  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet K (Northwestern A, Oregon, Maryland A, and Auburn A) | Number: 2
TOSSUP: A spin one-half particle that has a particular discrete example of these features must have at least one double degenerate state according to the Kramers theorem. These features are disrupted by short-range interactions in the two-dimensional XY model leading to a nonsensically divergent correlation function in the proof of the Mermin–Wagner theorem. The exponential of the operator for a conserved quantity corresponds to the continuous type of these features that often form Lie (“lee”) groups. Discrete examples of these features include space inversion, or parity. Rotations about a fixed point describe all of these features of a circle. For 10 points, name this feature of a physical system that remains unchanged by some transformation.
ANSWER: symmetry [or symmetries; or word forms; accept symmetry transformations; accept discrete symmetries or continuous symmetries] &lt;Physics&gt;

94.
ID: 159467  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet L (Delaware, UCSD A, and Amherst A) | Number: 1
TOSSUP: A cantata from this country inspired a piano concerto that quotes “L’Internationale” in its finale titled “Defend [a river in this country].” In a concerto from this country, the percussion soloists hit cardboard tubes and shake pom-poms made of paper strips; the composer of that Paper Concerto wrote a brief “Eroica” symphony for the YouTube Symphony Orchestra. A piece that sets poetry from this country ends with sprinkles of mandolin, harp, and celesta over sustained chords in the rest of the orchestra, above which the alto soloist repeats the word “ewig” (“AY-vig”). That piece inspired by this country has movements titled “The Drunkard in Spring” and “The Drinking Song of Earth’s Sorrow.” That piece inspired by this country’s poetry, written as a way to circumvent the “Curse of the Ninth,” is Mahler’s Song of the Earth. For 10 points, name this home country of composer Tan Dun and poet Li Bai.
ANSWER: China [or People’s Republic of China; or Zhongguo or Zhōnghuá Rénmín Gònghéguó] &lt;Music&gt;

95.
ID: 159424  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet I (OSU A, Rice A, and Yale B) | Number: 21
TOSSUP: One of this author’s characters is called “astonishingly like Uncle Joe Stalin” in a book which says that this author’s magnum opus is “not good in spite of but especially because of its moral confusions.” Christopher Ricks wrote a book about this author’s “grand style.” A book-length “preface” to one of this author’s works was written by C. S. Lewis. A reader-response analysis of this author’s magnum opus has a title which plays on C. S. Lewis’s Surprised by Joy; that book by Stanley Fish is called Surprised by Sin. A William Empson book investigates whether this author succeeded in “justifying the ways of God to man.” For 10 points, name this author who William Blake claimed was “of the Devil’s party without knowing it” in reference to his Paradise Lost.
ANSWER: John Milton &lt;British Literature&gt; Bonuses

96.
ID: 159460  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Trash | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet K (Northwestern A, Oregon, Maryland A, and Auburn A) | Number: 15
TOSSUP: Each New Year’s, this company posts a drawing by Jason Polan that cryptically hints at their upcoming products. This company’s YouTube channel includes “Three Reasons” videos, each of which offers three reasons for buying one of their products. This company also posts short videos called “Closet Picks” in which famous people enter their namesake closet and can take some of their products for free. In 2007, this company created the Eclipse brand, whose logo is a curvy stylized “e,” just as this company’s logo is a stylized “c.” With its eighth release, this company pioneered the use of letterboxing. In 2018, Warner Brothers shut down the short-lived streaming service on which this company teamed up with TCM, called FilmStruck. For 10 points, name this company that releases arthouse films as part of their namesake “collection.”
ANSWER: The Criterion Collection, Inc. &lt;Other Arts&gt;

97.
ID: 159457  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet K (Northwestern A, Oregon, Maryland A, and Auburn A) | Number: 12
TOSSUP: In a poem, this character sleeps with the Carle of Carlisle’s wife and then his daughter out of politeness. In a novel, this character has a vision in which he’s accosted by hags who shame him for his failure to kill Querig. This character appears as an elderly man who is killed by Wistan in Kazuo Ishiguro’s The Buried Giant. A poem that contains a tangent about the symbolism of the pentangle on this character’s shield describes how this man refuses a gold ring from a woman, but eventually agrees to take her silk girdle. In a poem that makes use of the “bob and wheel” form, this character has his purity tested by Lady Bertilak after he beheads a character who promptly picks up his head and promises to return in a year and a day. For 10 points, name this Arthurian character who encounters the Green Knight in a Middle English poem.
ANSWER: Sir Gawain &lt;British Literature&gt;

98.
ID: 159455  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet K (Northwestern A, Oregon, Maryland A, and Auburn A) | Number: 10
TOSSUP: This leader granted a French company a 70-year tax waiver for developing the El Boleo mine. At a summit at which this leader resolved the Chamizal dispute with the US president, an assassination attempt on this man was foiled by the celebrated scout Frederick Burnham. This leader’s government provoked the Yaqui (“YAH-kee”) Indians to revolt to justify seizing their land. This leader announced his retirement in an interview with the Pearson Magazine reporter James Creelman. José Limantour led this leader’s group of advisors, known as his científicos (“s’yen-TEE-fee-kohss”). A revolt against this man’s presidency was called for in the Plan of San Luis Potosi, which was authored by Francisco Madero. For 10 points, name this longtime President of Mexico who served from 1876 until his ouster in the Mexican Revolution.
ANSWER: Porfirio Díaz [or José de la Cruz Porfirio Díaz Mori] &lt;World History&gt;

99.
ID: 159483  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet L (Delaware, UCSD A, and Amherst A) | Number: 17
TOSSUP: This element names, and is used in, a matrix-free alternative to MALDI developed by Wei and Buriak. A functional group that contains this element bonded to alkyl chains moves from carbon to oxygen in the Brook rearrangement. This element is the heaviest in a reagent used to derivatize amino acids for gas chromatography, called MTBSTFA. Protecting groups containing this element are removed from alcohols using TBAF. Enol ethers of this element are used in the Mukaiyama variant of the Michael addition. This element bonded to four methyl groups is used as a standard for proton NMR. An oxide of this element is the main component of normal soda-lime glass. It is tetrahedrally bonded to four oxygen atoms in quartz. For 10 points, name this element, located below carbon on the periodic table, commonly used in computer chips.
ANSWER: silicon [or Si] &lt;Chemistry&gt;

100.
ID: 159453  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet K (Northwestern A, Oregon, Maryland A, and Auburn A) | Number: 8
TOSSUP: In an overture, after a brief orchestral introduction, this instrument plays a melody in 3/4 that opens with the notes [read slowly] C E G E over pizzicato offbeats. In the opening of a tone poem in 9/4 time, a solo for this instrument is accompanied by muted strings divided into 13 parts. This instrument plays the opening melody, based on a love duet between Teresa and Benvenuto Cellini (“chay-LEE-nee”), in Berlioz’s Roman Carnival Overture. Along with the violas, this instrument introduces the love theme in Tchaikovsky’s Romeo and Juliet Fantasy Overture. The flute plays a call-and-response with this instrument in the Ranz des Vaches (“rahntz day VAHSH”) section of the William Tell Overture. This instrument represents a mythical bird in Jean Sibelius’s (“zhahn sih-BAY-lee-us’s”) The Swan of Tuonela (“TOO-oh-nay-lah”). For 10 points, name this woodwind instrument that plays the solo in the Largo movement of the Symphony “From the New World.”
ANSWER: English horn [or cor anglais; do not accept or prompt on “horn” or “French horn”] &lt;Music&gt;

101.
ID: 159445  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet J (Texas A, Oxford B, UIUC C, and Maryland B) | Number: 21
TOSSUP: A character created by this playwright claims that her mother starred in the Broadway production of The Man Who Came to Dinner and was in the original company of Strange Interlude. This author created a character who takes an entire bottle of green pills, prompting another man to optimistically note “Maybe they were vitamins. He could be the healthiest one in the room!” In a play by this author, the “fifteen-and-a-half” year-old Jay and his brother Arty stay with their eccentric Aunt Bella. In another of his plays, a leaking skylight and the intrusions of the neighbor Victor Velasco disturb the married life of the newlyweds Paul and Corie Bratter. This author wrote a play about the relationship between the slob Oscar Madison and the neatnik Felix Ungar. For 10 points, name this playwright of Lost in Yonkers, Barefoot in the Park, and The Odd Couple.
ANSWER: Neil Simon [or Marvin Neil Simon] &lt;American Literature&gt; Bonuses

102.
ID: 159446  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature World
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet K (Northwestern A, Oregon, Maryland A, and Auburn A) | Number: 1
TOSSUP: A woman from this country moves to the Bay Area to live with her Uncle Pol after being disowned by her parents in a 2018 novel whose title references an earlier novel about an immigrant from this country. In a novel from this country, the discovery of a note alluding to Daniel’s reading of the “writing on the wall” is followed by a student throwing a kerosene lamp bomb into a river. An author who left this country as a teenager fictionalized his upbringing in the novel America Is in the Heart. An author from this country bid “farewell to all I love” in a poem written just before his execution by firing squad, “Mi último adiós” (“mee OOL-tee-mo ahd-YOCE”). Ibarra resorts to violence to liberate this country while in disguise as Simoun in El Filibusterismo (“fee-lee-boo-stay-REEZ-mo”), the sequel to Noli Me Tángere (“no-lee may TAHN-gay-ray”), a novel from this country. For 10 points, name this home country of Carlos Bulosan and José Rizal (“ree-SAHL”).
ANSWER: Philippines [or Republic of the Philippines; or Republika ng Pilipinas] (The novel in the first sentence is Elaine Castillo’s America Is Not the Heart.) &lt;World Literature&gt;

103.
ID: 159421  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Mythology | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet I (OSU A, Rice A, and Yale B) | Number: 18
TOSSUP: A poem about the “Lovers” of a character from this work appears in the third part of The Earthly Paradise by William Morris, who first translated this work into English. In this work, a boy is killed after failing a test by crying in pain after his cuffs were sewn into his skin. While on a fishing trip, three figures in this work kill another character in the form of an otter, then stuff his body with gold to pay a ransom. A figure in this work is born after a six-year pregnancy caused by the eating of a magic apple. That figure plants a tree in the center of his palace from which a sword would later be pulled. A sorceress in this work brews a potion that causes its central figure to forget his wife and marry Gudrun instead. The main hero of this work rescues Brynhildr from a ring of fire after killing the dragon Fafnir. For 10 points, name this saga about members of the title clan, including the hero Sigurd.
ANSWER: Volsunga Saga [or Saga of the Volsungs; prompt on the Poetic Edda as it is a source for large amounts of the saga] &lt;Mythology&gt;

104.
ID: 159437  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Geography | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet J (Texas A, Oxford B, UIUC C, and Maryland B) | Number: 13
TOSSUP: This landmass is home to the breeding grounds of the Gurney’s pitta. The Cameron and Genting Highlands are popular tourist destinations on this landmass, which is home to 18 aboriginal tribes called the Orang Asli. The Kinta Valley is a major tin-mining region of this landmass, which is referred to in ancient Greek and Roman sources as the “Golden Chersonese (“KER-suh-NEESE”).” In 2017, ten sailors of the USS John S. McCain died after it collided with the Alnic MC off the coast of this peninsula. The Tenasserim Hills run almost the entire length of this peninsula, the narrowest point of which is on the Kra Isthmus. The Andaman Sea is to the west of this peninsula, which is separated by the Strait of Malacca from Sumatra. Singapore is just off the tip of, for 10 points, what Southeast Asian peninsula?
ANSWER: Malay Peninsula [or Malaya; or Semenanjung Tanah Melayu; accept Kra Peninsula until “Kra”; prompt on “Southeast Asia” until “peninsula”] &lt;Geography&gt;

105.
ID: 159521  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet N (MIT, UIUC A, and Virginia Tech) | Number: 13
TOSSUP: Idaho Senator Len Jordan’s namesake rule was to vote the opposite way whenever this politician lobbied him to vote a certain way. This politician closed down historically-black Bowie State College during student riots and said that H. Rap Brown should be locked up and the key thrown away. This man described his enemies as “hopeless, hysterical hypochondriacs of history” and “nattering nabobs of negativism” in an address to Republicans in San Diego. This ethnic Greek was replaced in his highest position by a man who Lyndon B. Johnson called “too stupid to chew gum and walk at the same time.” This former Governor of Maryland resigned after he was accused of bribery and corruption, and was replaced by Gerald Ford. For 10 points, name this first Vice President under Richard Nixon.
ANSWER: Spiro Agnew [or Spiro Theodore Agnew] &lt;American History&gt;

106.
ID: 159477  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Geography | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet L (Delaware, UCSD A, and Amherst A) | Number: 11
TOSSUP: This mountain range is home to the four deepest known caves in the world, including the first one ever to be explored past a depth of 2000 meters, Krubera Cave. The culture hero Amirani was supposedly chained to a stratovolcano in this mountain range that is home to several surge-prone glaciers, including one that caused a 2014 mudslide in the Darial Gorge. The village of Noratus in the “Lesser” part of this mountain range is home to a field of khachkar gravestones on the shores of Lake Sevan. Mount Kazbek is in this range, which was legendarily the site of the Gates of Alexander. This range runs through such disputed territories as South Ossetia, Abkhazia, and Nagorno-Karabakh. For 10 points, Mount Elbrus is the highest point in what mountain range that runs between the Black and Caspian Seas and which, like the Urals, is often used to define the boundary between Europe and Asia?
ANSWER: Caucasus Mountains &lt;Geography&gt;

107.
ID: 159423  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet I (OSU A, Rice A, and Yale B) | Number: 20
TOSSUP: Soldiers had to drag their boats through heavy mud to get to this battle because their commander insisted on traveling by ship instead of taking Chef Menteur Road. Ignace Martin de Lino’s plantation home was burned during this battle, supposedly causing him to die of a broken heart three weeks later. Lieutenant Colonel Thomas Mullins forgot to bring ladders to scale the defenders’ fortifications during this battle. This battle was preceded by a naval battle on Lake Borgne. Pirate Jean Lafitte assisted the victors of this battle, who only suffered a few dozen casualties while inflicting over two thousand on invading British forces. The Treaty of Ghent was signed two weeks before, for 10 points, what final War of 1812 battle that turned Andrew Jackson into a national hero?
ANSWER: Battle of New Orleans &lt;American History&gt;

108.
ID: 159272  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet B (Wright State, Johns Hopkins A, and UNC A) | Number: 16
TOSSUP: One method of forming these bonds uses the reagent SEA (“S-E-A”), which can undergo an acyl shift; that method is native chemical ligation. These bonds show a weak n-to-pi-star electronic transition between 210 to 230 nanometers, and a strong pi-to-pi-star transition near 190 nanometers called NV1. The iso- form of these bonds are used to attach ubiquitin. Through partial resonance, these bonds are locked into a planar configuration. Oxyma and DCC are used to form these bonds after deprotection removes a Boc (“bock”) or Fmoc (“F-mock”) protecting group during solid phase synthesis. Linezolid (“lih-NEZZ-uh-lid”) and chloramphenicol (“klor-um-FEN-ih-call”) inhibit the formation of these bonds. Chymotrypsin (“KYE-mo-TRIP-sin”) and trypsin break down these bonds. Elongation factors assist in the formation of these bonds in the A and P sites of the ribosome during translation. For 10 points, name these bonds that connect two amino acids.
ANSWER: peptide bonds [prompt on covalent bonds or amide bonds; prompt on anything that mentions proteins] &lt;Biology&gt;

109.
ID: 159448  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Geography | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet K (Northwestern A, Oregon, Maryland A, and Auburn A) | Number: 3
TOSSUP: Some inhabitants of this region who lived near its Queen’s Gate were given names by military sergeant Alfred Holmes. This non-German region was where the first adult Neanderthal skull was found, and its Gorham’s Cave complex was likely home to some of the last surviving Neanderthals. Many words from the endangered language Haketia have found their way into this region’s unique, code switching-heavy dialect Llanito (“yah-NEE-toh”). The most populous city on the bay named for this territory is Algeciras (“al-juh-SEER-us”). Its most prominent feature is a part of the Betic Cordillera that was classically paired with Jebel Musa as one of the Pillars of Hercules. Article X of the Treaty of Utrecht transferred control of this territory, which is home to a European population of Barbary macaques. For 10 points, identify this British territory on the Iberian peninsula, known for its namesake “Rock.”
ANSWER: Gibraltar (Holmes was an officer responsible for caring for Gibraltar’s population of macaques.) &lt;Geography&gt;

110.
ID: 159492  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature European
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet M (Columbia A, Wesleyan, and Chicago A) | Number: 5
TOSSUP: A novel set in this country incessantly repeats phrases like “sitting in the wing chair” while describing a vapid “artistic dinner.” An author from this country used the sentence “It was murder” to end her novel Malina, which was adapted into a screenplay by another woman from this country. A novel set in this modern-day country involves the “Parallel Campaign,” which Ulrich joins in its second part, “Pseudoreality Prevails.” An author from this country wrote a novel in which a man reminisces about his classmates Wertheimer (“VAIRT-hime-er”) and Glenn Gould. Ingeborg Bachmann, Elfriede Jelinek (“el-FREE-duh YELL-ih-neck”), and Robert Musil (“MOO-zill”) are from, for 10 points, what home country of Thomas Bernhard, who set The Loser partially in the Mozarteum in its city of Salzburg?
ANSWER: Austria [or Republic of Austria; or Republik Österreich] &lt;European Literature&gt;

111.
ID: 159383  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet H (Cambridge B, Berkeley B, Columbia B, and Cornell) | Number: 1
TOSSUP: In his book Compulsive Beauty, Hal Foster argues that the “deathly repetition” that this painter engaged in during the 1920s stemmed from grief for his dead father. In one painting, this artist placed a yellow book with a red bookmark in front of the belly button of a shirtless, mustached man who closes his eyes. A clock tower overlooks this artist’s painting of Gare (“garr”) Montparnasse, which includes a bunch of bananas in the foreground. This painter of The Child’s Brain depicted an enormous orange surgeon’s glove hanging next to a classical bust in his painting The Song of Love. Recurring motifs such as distant locomotives and mannequin-like figures often feature in the paintings that this artist produced during his “metaphysical” period. For 10 points, name this artist who inspired Surrealism with works such as Mystery and Melancholy of a Street.
ANSWER: Giorgio de Chirico (“JOR-joh day KEE-ree-ko”) &lt;Painting&gt;

112.
ID: 159406  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Other
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet I (OSU A, Rice A, and Yale B) | Number: 3
TOSSUP: The head of these phenomena lies below the main scarp, and their crown is unmoved but often includes cracks. Gabion walls and Timber cribs can be used to mitigate the effects of these phenomena. When these events include rotation, the surface of rupture is curved upwards. Removing material from the toe produced by these events can be destabilizing, causing a larger secondary example. One large type of these phenomena called lahars (“LAH-hars”) are caused by volcanoes. These events, which result in material displacement through the zone of accumulation, are often caused by earthquakes or heavy rain and can be mitigated by soil stabilization. For 10 points, name these geological events in which rocks or earth move downhill, often with catastrophic results.
ANSWER: landslides [accept mass wasting, mudflows, mudslides, earthflows, or rockslides; prompt on descriptive answers including soil, earth, or rocks moving, flowing, or falling] &lt;Other Science (Earth Science)&gt;

113.
ID: 159385  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet H (Cambridge B, Berkeley B, Columbia B, and Cornell) | Number: 3
TOSSUP: In a 2017 biography of this man, Michael Jones discredits an account of this man’s slaughter of three thousand civilians during a siege. This man led two devastating raids called chevauchées (“shuh-voh-SHAY”) into territory held by Jean I, Count d’Armagnac. This man helped Peter of Castile to defeat his half-brother Henry of Trastamara at the Battle of Nájera (“NAH-hay-rah”). The franc was created after this man posted a ransom of three million écus (“ay-KOO”) for the release of a captured king in the Treaty of Brétigny (“bray-teen-YEE”). This commander adopted a crest of three ostrich feathers from the helmet of John I of Bohemia, who was killed in the Battle of Crécy (“cray-SEE”). This son of Edward III took John II of France prisoner while commanding troops at the Battle of Poitiers (“pwaht-YAY”). For 10 points, name this first Prince of Wales, whose nickname might come from his dark armor.
ANSWER: Edward the Black Prince [accept Edward of Woodstock; prompt on Edward] &lt;British History&gt;

114.
ID: 159403  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet H (Cambridge B, Berkeley B, Columbia B, and Cornell) | Number: 21
TOSSUP: After arriving in this state, a character starts to doubt his own past life on Cordelia Street. A story set in this state includes a note stating that the events are “beyond the possibility of a doubt” because of the existence of a certificate signed with a cross by a judge. A character steals money from Denny &amp; Carson’s and runs away to this state in a story subtitled “A Study in Temperament,” Willa Cather’s “Paul’s Case.” At the end of a story set in this state, the title character notices an image of George Washington instead of George III on a sign when he returns from the sight of men playing nine-pins. Some stories set in this state are attributed to the fictional historian Diedrich Knickerbocker. For 10 points, name this state, the setting of Washington Irving’s “Rip Van Winkle” and “The Legend of Sleepy Hollow.”
ANSWER: New York [or NY] &lt;American Literature&gt; Bonuses

115.
ID: 159345  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet F (Yale A, Gettysburg A, and Iowa) | Number: 5
TOSSUP: A standard rhythm originally from this style is traditionally counted [read slowly] “one two THREE four five SIX seven EIGHT nine TEN eleven TWELVE,” with the strongest accent on twelve. For performing in this style, a certain instrument is often outfitted with a “tap plate.” Music in this tradition frequently uses the Phrygian mode, but often adds a melodic raised third or seventh. An instrumentalist in this style had a hit in the ’70s with a song whose name translates as “between two waters.” Performers in this tradition use both open and cupped hands to make loud and soft handclaps, or “palms.” This tradition’s “deep song” was revived in the 1920s with a festival by Manuel de Falla (“deh FAH-yah”) and Federico García Lorca. Extremely fast guitars and castanets typically accompany, for 10 points, what traditional music and dance style of Andalusian gypsies?
ANSWER: flamenco (This question translates the Spanish golpeador, Paco de Lucía’s “Entre dos aguas,” palmas, and cante jondo.) &lt;Other Arts&gt;

116.
ID: 159376  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet G (Cambridge A, Carleton College A, and Penn A) | Number: 15
TOSSUP: This author wrote about a giant Venus flytrap that refuses to eat anyone and a man piloting a fake iceberg to Florida in a collection of bar stories told by Harry Purvis called Tales from the White Hart. In one of his novels, Jan Rodricks becomes the last living human after Earth’s children merge into a hive mind thanks to the influence of Karellen and the other Overlords. The line “overhead, without any fuss, the stars were going out” ends a story by this author in which monks use a computer to list the title appellations. This author of Childhood’s End and “The Nine Billion Names of God” wrote a novel in which the Discovery One is sent on a mission to Iapetus, during which Dave Bowman is forced to shut down the computer HAL 9000. For 10 points, name this author of 2001: A Space Odyssey.
ANSWER: Arthur C. Clarke [or Arthur Charles Clarke] &lt;Trash&gt;

117.
ID: 159341  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History Classical
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet F (Yale A, Gettysburg A, and Iowa) | Number: 1
TOSSUP: A set of trade restrictions passed by this city was reinterpreted as a purely religious sanction in a 1972 book by British historian G. E. M. de Ste. Croix (“duh saint croy”), who also wrote a 1954 article about the “character” of this city based on a lecture about its “alleged unpopularity.” This city broke with precedent by establishing plantation-like, extraction-oriented colonies called cleruchies (“CLAIR-uh-keez”). The “fall” of this city’s empire titles the fourth volume of a history by Donald Kagan. This city’s citizens were credited with the line “The strong do what they can and the weak suffer what they must” in a fictionalized dialogue with the city of Melos. This city, whose trade was conducted by foreigners called metics, moved the treasury of the Delian League to this city in 454 BC. For 10 points, name this home city of Thucydides, which fought the Peloponnesian War with Sparta.
ANSWER: Athens [or the Athenian Empire; accept The Character of the Athenian Empire; accept The Fall of the Athenian Empire] &lt;Ancient History&gt;

118.
ID: 159342  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet F (Yale A, Gettysburg A, and Iowa) | Number: 2
TOSSUP: This quantity minus RT all over molar volume all to the one-half power gives the Hildebrand solubility parameter. When analyzing evapotranspiration, this quantity is unusually written as lambda. The ratio of two examples of this quantity is equal to a ratio of one minus reduced temperatures all to the power of 0.38 in the Watson correlation. This quantity is assumed to be equal for all feed components in a binary distillation in the McCabe–Thiele (“TEEL-uh”) method. This quantity divided by the ideal gas constant, multiplied by one-over-T2 minus one-over-T1, appears on one side of the Clausius–Clapeyron equation. This quantity, which is zero past the critical point, explains why adding energy to water at the boiling point doesn’t increase its temperature. For 10 points, name this quantity, the additional energy needed to turn a liquid into a gas.
ANSWER: enthalpy of vaporization [or latent heat of vaporization; prompt on heat, enthalpy, or latent heat; prompt on delta-H-vap] &lt;Chemistry&gt;

119.
ID: 159318  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Computer Science
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet D (NYU A, Rutgers A, Michigan A, and Oxford A) | Number: 20
TOSSUP: This computer scientist described a backtracking scheme to solve a matrix version of the exact cover problem, where the links of a list of nodes “dance” with different partner nodes. This man proposed a number system with base 2i and introduced a paradigm that put source code within descriptive text, called “literate programming,” that he implemented with WEB. He developed the first linear-time search-string algorithm with Morris and Pratt. This computer scientist developed the system for rendering raster fonts, called Metafont, which he used for the Computer Modern font he designed. For 10 points, name this American computer scientist who developed the typesetting language TeX (“tek”) and continues to write The Art of Computer Programming.
ANSWER: Donald Knuth (“k’NOOTH”) [or Donald Ervin Knuth] &lt;Other Science (Computer Science)&gt;

120.
ID: 159416  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet I (OSU A, Rice A, and Yale B) | Number: 13
TOSSUP: Jamie Wyeth (“WHY-eth”) was inspired by a set of works by Paul Cadmus to create a series of paintings titled for these things in which, unusually, all of the subjects are seagulls. A figure wearing a Hitler mask sits atop a crawling old woman in a painting titled for these things by Otto Dix. The best-known painting titled for these things shows two couples inside of a pink tent being entertained by two clowns, as well as a woman with her back to the viewer looking at her reflection in a mirror held by a demon. That painting illustrates these things using a series of scenes that move around the outside of a large circle, which itself is surrounded by smaller circles depicting death, heaven, hell, and the Last Judgment, or the “Four Last Things.” A tabletop painting by Hieronymus Bosch (“bosh”) depicts, for 10 points, what set of Christian vices that includes gluttony and sloth?
ANSWER: the seven deadly sins [accept the cardinal sins and The Seven Deadly Sins and the Four Last Things; prompt on sins; anti-prompt on any of the specific sins: pride, greed, lust, envy, gluttony, wrath, and sloth] &lt;Painting&gt;

121.
ID: 159363  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet G (Cambridge A, Carleton College A, and Penn A) | Number: 2
TOSSUP: Because of a laudanum addiction, an author with this surname believed that he was always accompanied by a doppelgӓnger whom he called a “ghost” version of himself. A character with this surname draws gasps when he willingly chooses to read Fordyce’s Sermons after teatime. That character with this surname absurdly lists his reasons for proposing to his cousin, who promptly tells him that she is the “last woman in the world” who could make him happy. This is the surname of an obsequious clergyman who allies with Lady Catherine de Bourgh in Pride and Prejudice. An author with this surname wrote a detective novel in which Godfrey Ablewhite is revealed to be the one who stole the title diamond from Rachel Verinder. For 10 points, identify this surname of the author of The Moonstone, Wilkie.
ANSWER: Collins [accept William Collins or William Wilkie Collins] &lt;British Literature&gt;

122.
ID: 159364  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet G (Cambridge A, Carleton College A, and Penn A) | Number: 3
TOSSUP: This musician’s first published instrumental song was a novelty rag called “Rialto Ripples.” A song composed by this musician is the origin of a 32-bar chord progression whose B section consists of seventh chords on scale degrees 3, 6, 2, and 5; that progression is the basis of many songs by other musicians, including “Anthropology” and “Cotton Tail.” This musician wrote a standard that was originally included in, but later removed from, several musicals that he collaborated on, including Rosalie, Strike Up the Band, and Lady, Be Good; that song is “The Man I Love.” A jazz chord progression known as “rhythm changes” derives from this composer’s song “I Got Rhythm.” One of this composer’s songs describes how “the livin’ is easy, the fish are jumpin’” on Catfish Row. For 10 points, name this composer who wrote the song “Summertime” for his opera Porgy and Bess.
ANSWER: George Gershwin [or George Jacob Gershwin; or Jacob Bruskin Gershowitz; accept Ira Gershwin or Israel Gershowitz until “32-bar” is read] &lt;Other Arts&gt;

123.
ID: 159298  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet C (MSU A, NYU B, UCLA A, and Virginia A) | Number: 21
TOSSUP: This poet wrote a sonnet requesting that someone give him a pen so he can “write down a line of glorious tone” because his spirit is “not content so soon to be alone.” This author wrote that “the Poetry of earth is never dead” in a poem about two insects, “On the Grasshopper and the Cricket.” This author of “On Leaving Some Friends at an Early Hour” compared an object to “nature’s patient, sleepless Eremite” in a sonnet that titles a 2009 Jane Campion biopic about him. This author of “Bright Star” declared that he felt like he was “some watcher of the skies when a new planet swims into his ken” or like “stout Cortez when with eagle eyes he star’d at the Pacific” upon reading a particularly good translation. For 10 points, name this poet of “On First Looking into Chapman’s Homer.”
ANSWER: John Keats &lt;British Literature&gt; Bonuses

124.
ID: 159353  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet F (Yale A, Gettysburg A, and Iowa) | Number: 13
TOSSUP: This English-language author sued the Malian writer Yambo Ouologuem (“wo-lo-GHEM”) for plagiarizing passages from one of his books in the novel Bound to Violence. At the end of the novel in which he appears, a character created by this author laments that he has become engagé (“on-gah-ZHAY”), rather than remaining neutral. In this author’s first novel, Francis Andrews agrees to take the blame for a murder after betraying a group of smugglers via court testimony. Bombs are hidden in bicycle pumps in another novel by this author of The Man Within; in that novel, Phuong is forced to choose between journalist Thomas Fowler and CIA agent Alden Pyle. In a novel by this author of The Quiet American, a socialist lieutenant chases a “whiskey priest” across Mexico. For 10 points, name this author of The Power and the Glory.
ANSWER: Graham Greene [or Henry Graham Greene] &lt;British Literature&gt;

125.
ID: 159332  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet E (Penn State B, Berkeley A, and Harvard A) | Number: 13
TOSSUP: The day before his death, this author started writing an essay reminiscing about the time he met a woman in a snowstorm who turned out to be his literary idol, Willa Cather. One of this author’s books grew out of a trip he took to the Soviet Union with an opera company that was putting on a touring production of Porgy and Bess. This author of The Muses Are Heard honored the publisher Katharine Graham with a masquerade party held at the Plaza Hotel called the Black and White Ball. This partner of Jack Dunphy compiled 8,000 pages of research for a book that began as a series of New Yorker articles, for which he traveled to Holcomb, Kansas, with his childhood friend Harper Lee. That “nonfiction novel” by this author is about the brutal murder of the Clutter family. For 10 points, name this author of In Cold Blood and Breakfast at Tiffany’s.
ANSWER: Truman Capote [or Truman Garcia Capote; or Truman Streckfus Persons] &lt;American Literature&gt;

126.
ID: 159528  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Geography | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet N (MIT, UIUC A, and Virginia Tech) | Number: 20
TOSSUP: This island’s two highest peaks are home to the El Tucuche golden tree frog, a variety of heart-tongued frog. This island was referred to as Iëre, deriving from a word for “hummingbird,” by its native Arawak inhabitants. The Lion House, the ancestral home of this island’s prominent Capildeo family, is located in its largest settlement, Chaguanas. The banning of African percussion instruments on this island in 1880 led to the development of the steelpan. This island is across the Gulf of Paria from Venezuela, making it the southernmost major island in the Caribbean. Supposedly, Christopher Columbus fulfilled a promise that he had made when he named this island after a religious concept after sighting three hills. The capital city of Port of Spain is on, for 10 points, what island which is much larger than its neighbor, Tobago?
ANSWER: Trinidad &lt;Geography&gt;

127.
ID: 159392  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet H (Cambridge B, Berkeley B, Columbia B, and Cornell) | Number: 10
TOSSUP: According to Georges Bataille (“zhorzh bah-TYE”), this concept encompasses elements of “inner experience” that threaten “homogenous society” through waste, destruction, and “useless expenditure.” A book whose title contains this term defines it as a “sticking-out” that constitutes “a shield against the terror of anomy” represented by chaos; that work by Peter Berger (“burger”) is titled for a “canopy” with this quality. One thinker argued that myths describe the namesake “time” when this concept first appears, and introduced the concept of “hierophanies” (“hy-ROFF-uh-nees”) to refer to manifestations of this concept in the world. Émile Durkheim (“dur-KEM”) argued that this concept is embodied in totems, and argued that a dichotomy between it and an opposing concept that represents everyday concerns is the defining feature of religion. For 10 points, name this concept analyzed by Mircea Eliade (“meer-CHAY-uh el-ee-AH-duh”) in a book whose title pairs it with “the profane.”
ANSWER: sacred [accept The Sacred Canopy, sacred time, or The Sacred and the Profane] &lt;Social Science&gt;

128.
ID: 159425  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Mythology | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet J (Texas A, Oxford B, UIUC C, and Maryland B) | Number: 1
TOSSUP: In a Sioux myth, one of these objects is enchanted to appear overnight through the body of a young man who refused to sleep with an evil sorceress disguised as the man’s adopted sister. In the Welsh myth Math fab Mathonwy (“MOTH vob ma-THON-wee”), the hero Lleu (“th’LUH-ee”) turns into an eagle after his death and is found by his uncle overlooking a lake on one of these objects. It’s not an axe, but one of these objects was a symbol of Perun that represented the world in Slavic mythology. One of these objects in Hesse (“HESS-uh”) that was sacred to Thor was destroyed by St. Boniface in the 8th century. An oracle of Zeus at Dodona interpreted the rustling of the leaves of this kind of tree to divine the god’s will. A passage from Pliny (“PLIN-ee”) describes a Celtic ritual involving the removal of mistletoe from one of these trees. For 10 points, name this kind of deciduous tree whose acorns were consumed by Druids as a way of seeing the future.
ANSWER: oak trees [accept Donar’s Oak or Thor’s Oak; prompt on trees] &lt;Mythology&gt;

129.
ID: 159433  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet J (Texas A, Oxford B, UIUC C, and Maryland B) | Number: 9
TOSSUP: A collection named for this type of person includes a poem whose speaker is a nun who “tends the gardens” and “prays for the immortal soul of rock ’n’ roll,” entitled “Elvis’s Twin Sister.” One of these people complains about being forced to live under an oak tree in an “earthen cave” in a “lament” found in the Exeter Book. In a play named after this type of person, Mrs. Squeamish and Sir Jasper Fidget are oblivious to the double entendres in Horner’s description of his china collection. After tearing several pages out of a book, one of these people is struck by Jankyn. That one of these people tells the story of a knight who, at the orders of Queen Guinevere, strikes a deal with an old woman to learn what it is that women desire most. For 10 points, one of the Canterbury Tales is told by what type of person from Bath?
ANSWER: wife [or wives; accept The World’s Wife or “The Wife’s Lament” or The Country Wife or “The Wife of Bath’s Tale”] &lt;British Literature&gt;

130.
ID: 159510  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet N (MIT, UIUC A, and Virginia Tech) | Number: 2
TOSSUP: One of this playwright’s characters claims to have lived for two years off of his misfortunes, such as losing the use of his limbs and becoming a “widow with six helpless children.” In a play by this author, a woman described as an “old weather-beaten she-dragon” serves as the guardian of an heiress who loves “Ensign Beverly,” who is actually another man in disguise. The second act of a play by this author features many comments from Mr. Sneer and Mr. Dangle, who are watching a rehearsal of the tragedy The Spanish Armada. In a play by this author, Charles Surface throws down the screen covering Lady Teazle, whom her husband and Charles had believed to be a French milliner. This author of The Critic wrote a play about Jack Absolute’s pursuit of Lydia Languish, the niece of Mrs. Malaprop. For 10 points, name this author of The School for Scandal and The Rivals.
ANSWER: Richard Brinsley Sheridan &lt;British Literature&gt;

131.
ID: 159466  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet K (Northwestern A, Oregon, Maryland A, and Auburn A) | Number: 21
TOSSUP: The phrase “Boys, be ambitious” was popularized on this island by William S. Clark, an American professor who established an agricultural college here. The last public performance of soprano Maria Callas (“CAL-uss”) was held in 1974 in this island’s largest city. A breakaway republic on this island was established by French army officer Jules Barnet. Shakushain’s revolt was led on this island in the late 1660s against its governing Matsumae clan. The Republic of Ezo on this island, the first democracy in its country, was established in the aftermath of the Boshin War by Tokugawa officials fleeing from the Meiji Restoration. This island’s native people practice bear sacrifice in the Iyomante ritual. The Ainu people are native to, for 10 points, what northernmost Japanese island?
ANSWER: Hokkaido &lt;World History&gt; Bonuses

132.
ID: 159374  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet G (Cambridge A, Carleton College A, and Penn A) | Number: 13
TOSSUP: John Damrell founded the National Association of Fire Engineers after an 1872 fire in this city, which was also the first American city to establish building height and area restrictions. Peter Hurkos used ESP to try to find a serial killer in this city. The deadliest nightclub fire in history occurred at this city’s Cocoanut Grove club. In 1990, over half a billion dollars worth of art, including Rembrandt’s Storm on the Sea of Galilee, was stolen from this city’s Gardner Museum. In 1919, twenty-one people died after the collapse of a tank caused a wave of sticky molasses to rush through this city’s North End neighborhood. Governor Calvin Coolidge declared that “there is no right to strike against the public safety” in opposition to a 1919 strike of this city’s police officers. For 10 points, name this capital of Massachusetts.
ANSWER: Boston &lt;American History&gt;

133.
ID: 159358  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet F (Yale A, Gettysburg A, and Iowa) | Number: 18
TOSSUP: The y-axis of a graph that was developed by Alan Krueger and named after a novel measures the “stickiness” of this quantity. A 1974 paper by Richard Easterlin argued that there exists no time-series relationship between happiness and this quantity. A paper co-authored by Emmanuel Saez (“sah-EZZ”) used American data on this quantity between 1913 and 1998 to advance an argument that builds on Simon Kuznets’s “U-Curve” hypothesis. “Superior goods” have a value of more than one for the elasticity of demand associated with this quantity. According to Thomas Piketty (“toh-MAH pee-keh-TEE”), the fact that the type of this quantity derived from capital is less equally distributed than the type derived from labor is a key reason why its namesake inequality has risen since the 1970s. For 10 points, name this quantity, the amount of money earned over a set period of time.
ANSWER: income [accept national or personal income, income inequality, capital income, or labor income; prompt on wealth] (The graph in the first sentence is the Great Gatsby curve.) &lt;Social Science&gt;

134.
ID: 159373  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature World
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet G (Cambridge A, Carleton College A, and Penn A) | Number: 12
TOSSUP: The protagonist of a novel from this country invents a fake saint to support his bureaucracy, which synchronizes all the clocks in this country; that novel from this country is called The Time Regulation Institute. In another novel from this country, 500 cats are imported to kill rats in order to fight the bubonic plague. The narrator of that novel creates a siege weapon with a scholar to whom he bears a strong physical resemblance. The narrator of that novel from this country becomes the slave of a man known as Hoja. An author from this home country of Ahmet Hamdi Tanpınar created the poet Ka, who negotiates Blue’s release by ensuring that Kadife removes her headscarf during a production of The Spanish Tragedy. For 10 points, name this home country of the author of The White Castle and Snow, Orhan Pamuk.
ANSWER: Turkey [or Republic of Turkey; or Türkiye Cumhuriyeti] &lt;World Literature&gt;

135.
ID: 159328  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet E (Penn State B, Berkeley A, and Harvard A) | Number: 9
TOSSUP: In one play, a character notes “intemperate agues (“AY-gyooz”) make physicians cruel” after claiming that this concept “ne’er will slack till it hath spent his fuel.” In a play named for this concept, a character whose name references this concept disguises himself as Piato to trick Lussurioso, the Duke’s heir. Paraphrasing The True Tragedy of Richard III, a character claims that “the croaking raven doth bellow for” this concept. This concept titles a play that was once attributed to Cyril Tourneur (“turner”) but now attributed to Thomas Middleton. The ghost of Don Andrea and a personification of this concept make up the chorus of a play about the mad Hieronimo. Tamora disguises herself as the spirit of this concept to trick Titus Andronicus after he feigns madness. For 10 points, a form of Jacobean and Elizabethan tragedy named after what concept is exemplified by plays like The Duchess of Malfi and Hamlet?
ANSWER: revenge [accept The Revenger’s Tragedy; do not accept or prompt on similar answers, such as “vengeance”] &lt;British Literature&gt;

136.
ID: 159313  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Religion | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet D (NYU A, Rutgers A, Michigan A, and Oxford A) | Number: 15
TOSSUP: In one country, a holiday dedicated to these people features the creation and gifting of literal “money trees.” These are the only people who are eligible to earn an academic degree called the geshe (“gay-shay”). A scripture read by these people was recited from memory by Upali. A puja dedicated to people of this type is celebrated with charitable donations and follows Vassa, a three-month period during which they are prohibited from traveling. A group of these people founded by Ajahn Mun primarily practices in the forests of Thailand. The first “basket” of the Tripitaka is entirely dedicated to rules for these people. The official title for a person of this type is a bhikkhu. For 10 points, name this occupation whose holders may wear orange robes if they are a member of the Theravada school.
ANSWER: Buddhist monks [accept bhikkhuni until read; prompt on Buddhists or monks] &lt;Religion&gt;

137.
ID: 159333  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet E (Penn State B, Berkeley A, and Harvard A) | Number: 14
TOSSUP: This artist depicted a long-haired man in a corset stabbing a nude figure in a reimagining of Delacroix’s The Death of Sardanapalus titled The Pool Party of Sardanapalus. A number of white swans whose heads are replaced with human heads sit at the center of one of the many works by this artist inspired by the form of the cyclorama. A young child strangles a duck at the edge of a river in this artist’s first major mural. This artist’s installation piece at the Domino factory, A Subtlety, featured an enormous, sugar-coated sculpture of a stereotypical “mammy” in the form of a sphinx. This artist’s mural The End of Uncle Tom and the Grand Allegorical Tableau of Eva in Heaven employs her trademark style of cut-paper figures against a white background. For 10 points, name this contemporary American artist whose works often depict black silhouettes of masters and slaves.
ANSWER: Kara Walker [or Kara Elizabeth Walker] &lt;Painting&gt;

138.
ID: 159379  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet G (Cambridge A, Carleton College A, and Penn A) | Number: 18
TOSSUP: Chronic use of this medication in vegetarians or people with chronic kidney disease can cause pyroglutamic acidosis. Active metabolites of this compound include AM404, which is generated by reaction with arachidonic (“uh-RACK-ih-DON-ick”) acid. Plasma levels of this drug appear on the y-axis of the Rumack–Matthew nomogram. Ingesting over 10 grams of this substance causes buildup of the toxic metabolite NAPQI, which can be eliminated by using N-acetylcysteine (“N-uh-SEE-tull-SIS-teen”) to regenerate stores of glutathione. Overdose of this substance is the most common cause of acute liver failure in the US. This medication is combined with hydrocodone in Vicodin (“VIKE-uh-din”). This compound is thought to inhibit the POX site of prostaglandin H2 synthase, unlike NSAIDs (“EN-seds”), which inhibit cyclooxygenase. For 10 points, name this analgesic commonly marketed as Tylenol.
ANSWER: acetaminophen (“uh-SEE-tuh-MIN-uh-fin”) [or paracetamol or APAP; accept Tylenol until read] &lt;Biology&gt;

139.
ID: 159308  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Mythology | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet D (NYU A, Rutgers A, Michigan A, and Oxford A) | Number: 10
TOSSUP: Evidence on a bowl from the reign of the pharaoh Aha contradicts Manetho’s (“MAN-uh-thoh’s”) claim that the worship of this deity began during the second dynasty. Diodoros describes how this deity and his mother would spend forty days at Nilopolis before traveling to Memphis. During the reign of Ramses II, people started to bury this deity in the “Lesser Vaults” at its sanctuary in Saqqara. Herodotus describes how after killing this deity, Cambyses II was driven mad as a punishment. Members of the cult of this deity identified him using a series of markings including a triangle on the forehead. This son of Hathor was earlier considered a herald of Ptah before the Greeks combined him with another anthropomorphic deity. For 10 points, name this Egyptian deity in the form of a sacred bull, later syncretized with Osiris into an anthropomorphic god.
ANSWER: Apis [accept Hapis or Hapi-ankh, do not accept or prompt on “Serapis”] &lt;Mythology&gt;

140.
ID: 159291  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Philosophy | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet C (MSU A, NYU B, UCLA A, and Virginia A) | Number: 14
TOSSUP: In a commentary on another thinker, this philosopher argued that written words always signify spoken words, which themselves signify thoughts, which themselves denote things, a theory he termed the “order of speaking.” This thinker compared God’s perspective to that of a center point in a circle to argue that God has eternal knowledge rather than foreknowledge. In his best-known work, this philosopher created a character who describes her “unchanging sport” as making the “lowest turn to the top, the highest to the bottom.” That work by this thinker centers on a conversation between a fictional version of himself and Lady Philosophy, and was written during his imprisonment by Theodoric. For 10 points, name this medieval thinker who popularized the image of the “wheel of fortune” in his Consolation of Philosophy.
ANSWER: Boethius (“bo-EE-thee-us”) [or Anicius Manlius Severinus Boethius] &lt;Philosophy&gt;

141.
ID: 159297  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History Classical
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet C (MSU A, NYU B, UCLA A, and Virginia A) | Number: 20
TOSSUP: This man’s name was used as a codename by Adam Weishaupt, founder of the Order of the Illuminati. According to Plutarch, while caught in a pincer movement, this man stabbed his horse in front of his army to symbolize his unwillingness to surrender. The practice of decimation was revived after troops fighting this man fled the battlefield. While besieged on Mount Vesuvius, this man’s forces rappelled down its slopes with vine ropes to destroy an army led by Gaius Claudius Glaber. This Thracian was betrayed by Cilician (“suh-LISH-in”) pirates who were supposed to take him and his men to Sicily. Pompey was recalled from Hispania to fight this man’s forces, which were eventually defeated by Crassus, who crucified thousands of survivors of his army along the Appian Way. The Third Servile War was started by, for 10 points, what gladiator who led the largest slave revolt against Rome?
ANSWER: Spartacus &lt;Ancient History&gt;

142.
ID: 159287  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet C (MSU A, NYU B, UCLA A, and Virginia A) | Number: 10
TOSSUP: When asked to adapt The Diary of Anne Frank for the stage, this playwright declined, assuming it would be too depressing, and suggested that Frances Goodrich and Albert Hackett adapt it instead. A play by this author opens with a black servant arranging glasses and a bottle of port for an “honored guest.” After the publication of this author’s memoir, the psychiatrist Muriel Gardiner claimed that she was the basis for the character of Julia, during a controversy in which this author sued Mary McCarthy for libel. This author wrote a play in which a disobedient student named Mary Tilford claims that her teachers Karen Wright and Martha Dobie are having an affair. In another of her plays, a woman blackmails her brothers after Leo steals railroad bonds from the deceased Horace. For 10 points, name this author of The Children’s Hour and The Little Foxes.
ANSWER: Lillian Hellman [or Lillian Florence Hellman] &lt;American Literature&gt;

143.
ID: 159273  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature European
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet B (Wright State, Johns Hopkins A, and UNC A) | Number: 17
TOSSUP: This character insists on burning all the documents pertaining to a lawsuit between Lord Kissbreech and Lord Suckfist. The seventh chapter of a novel named after this character ends with a list of ludicrously-titled novels attributed to the Abbey of Saint-Victor, which has often been taken as a critique of scholasticism. This student of the tutor Epistemon justifies beating up a Limousin (“li-moo-ZANN”) for speaking “incorrectly” by arguing that language should be maintained and not change. Badebec dies while giving birth to this character, who is born hairy “like a bear.” The narrator of a novel fails to report on a battle that this character participates in because he was exploring a civilization inside this character’s mouth. The Oracle of the Holy Bottle is consulted by Panurge and this character. For 10 points, the second title character of a series of novels by François Rabelais (“rab-LAY”) is what son of Gargantua?
ANSWER: Pantagruel &lt;European Literature&gt;

144.
ID: 159280  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature World
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet C (MSU A, NYU B, UCLA A, and Virginia A) | Number: 3
TOSSUP: A poet from this modern-day country gave himself a name meaning “stream full of life” in a Dante-inspired book in which he travels through the heavenly spheres, whose title, Book of Eternity, is a pun on his son’s name. An author born in this country wrote a novel in which Nadia and Saeed escape a civil war using a series of magical doors. The 2017 novel Exit West is by an author born in this country who wrote about Changez’s (“chahn-GEZZ’s”) reaction to the 9/11 attacks in the novel The Reluctant Fundamentalist. The creation of this country was advocated by the so-called “Poet of the East,” Muhammad Iqbal. An activist from this country co-wrote a 2013 memoir whose subtitle calls her “the girl who stood up for education.” For 10 points, Mohsin Hamid (“MO-sin HA-mid”) and Malala Yousafzai are from what country, much of whose literature is written in Urdu?
ANSWER: Pakistan [or Islamic Republic of Pakistan; or Islami Jumhuriyah Pakistan] &lt;World Literature&gt;

145.
ID: 159267  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet B (Wright State, Johns Hopkins A, and UNC A) | Number: 11
TOSSUP: This composer adapted material from his first two symphonies for his Opus 8, a series of twelve Silhouettes for piano. In the F-sharp minor middle section of a piece by this composer, almost every phrase opens with the notes [read slowly] F-sharp G-sharp A G-sharp A; that G-flat major piano piece was supposedly inspired by a train ride, and Fritz Kreisler arranged it for violin in G major. This composer based a set of sixteen pieces originally for piano four-hands on dances such as the sousedská (“SOH-set-skah”) or skočná (“SKOATCH-nah”). This composer of two Furianty (“FOO-ree-ont-ee”) and eight Humoresques for piano also drew from a national folk dance to write a six-movement piano trio subtitled Dumky. For 10 points, name this Czech composer of the Slavonic Dances and a Symphony No. 9 “From the New World.”
ANSWER: Antonín Dvořák &lt;Music&gt;

146.
ID: 159268  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Math
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet B (Wright State, Johns Hopkins A, and UNC A) | Number: 12
TOSSUP: There is exactly one structure with this property for a topological manifold in dimensions lower than four. Both the real and imaginary parts of complex functions with this property are harmonic, and complex functions with this property satisfy the Cauchy–Riemann (“koh-SHEE REE-man”) conditions. Given a function f that has this property in some neighborhood, its inverse function g will also have this property if the Jacobian determinant of f is nonzero. All the entries in the Jacobian matrix must exist for a multivariable function to have this property. Real analytic functions have this property “infinitely,” and are equal to an infinite power series. Single-variable functions lack this property if their graphs have corners or cusps. For 10 points, name this property of functions that have linear approximations at every point.
ANSWER: differentiable [or word forms like differentiability; accept analytic or word forms after the first sentence but until read; accept infinitely differentiable] &lt;Other Science (Math)&gt;

147.
ID: 159283  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet C (MSU A, NYU B, UCLA A, and Virginia A) | Number: 6
TOSSUP: An anti-Semitic leader of this country met with Japanese military leader Akashi Motojiro to encourage its soldiers in Manchuria to defect to Japan. A leader of this country proposed a union of neighboring states called Intermarium, which was part of a goal to weaken its eastern neighbor called Prometheism. This country’s representative at the Paris Peace Conference was also a talented pianist who was the first solo performer at Carnegie Hall. In 1920, this country defeated an invasion led by Mikhail Tukhachevsky in what was called the “Miracle on the Vistula.” The 13th of Woodrow Wilson’s Fourteen Points granted this country a narrow corridor to the sea, which turned East Prussia into an exclave. Józef Piłsudski (“YOO-zeff peew-SOOD-skee”) led, for 10 points, what country, which defended its capital city in the Battle of Warsaw?
ANSWER: Poland [or Republic of Poland; or Rzeczpospolita Polska] &lt;European History&gt;

148.
ID: 159367  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature European
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet G (Cambridge A, Carleton College A, and Penn A) | Number: 6
TOSSUP: A character created by this author works on the radio series The Nature of Art and splices together blank sections of tape to listen to. The protagonist of a novel by this author resents his mother for encouraging his sister Henrietta to volunteer for anti-aircraft duty during World War II. In a novel by this author, a rich entertainer who claims that he can smell through the phone returns to his apartment and makes angry phone calls after Marie leaves him. A novel by this author of “Murke’s Collected Silences” ends at the protagonist’s 80th birthday party, at which a novelty building-shaped cake is served. In that novel, in order to punish Nazi collaborators who worked on a building designed by his father, Robert Faehmel (“FEH-mull”) destroys St. Anthony’s Abbey. For 10 points, name this German author of The Clown and Billiards at Half-Past Nine.
ANSWER: Heinrich Bӧll [or Heinrich Theodor Bӧll] &lt;European Literature&gt;

149.
ID: 159294  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet C (MSU A, NYU B, UCLA A, and Virginia A) | Number: 17
TOSSUP: A character in this novel is intrigued by a photo of Charlie “Whitey” Durham, the father of a child whom Ambrosia gave birth to during an earthquake in 1907. At the beginning of this novel, a character compares his significance to that of a pebble on a beach or a needle in a haystack, and tries to gas himself in his car. A character in this novel tries to convince Mickey to hang a portrait of a revolutionary hero in O’Connell’s pub in a chapter that recounts “the root canals of Mangal Pande.” In this novel, Joshua Chalfen joins a radical animal rights group called Fate, and Millat joins a Muslim fundamentalist organization called KEVIN. In this novel, Archie Jones’s best friend Samad Iqbal tries to raise his English sons as traditional Bengali Muslims. For 10 points, name this novel by Zadie Smith named after some body parts.
ANSWER: White Teeth &lt;British Literature&gt;

150.
ID: 159301  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet D (NYU A, Rutgers A, Michigan A, and Oxford A) | Number: 3
TOSSUP: This legislation’s chief opponent compared it to “using an atomic bomb to kill a few mice.” Sonia Johnson was excommunicated from the Church of Latter-Day Saints for speaking in support of this legislation. Wayne Townsend cast the tie-breaking vote in Indiana after being urged to vote in favor of this legislation by then-First Lady Rosalynn Carter. The “three-state strategy” is a current attempt to convert this piece of legislation into law. The conservative Eagle Forum was founded to oppose this legislation by Phyllis Schlafly. This legislation never actually became law because only 35 out of 38 states ratified it by the 1979 deadline. Alice Paul originally authored, for 10 points, what proposed constitutional amendment that would have ended distinctions between men and women in the United States?
ANSWER: Equal Rights Amendment [or ERA] &lt;American History&gt;

151.
ID: 159311  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet D (NYU A, Rutgers A, Michigan A, and Oxford A) | Number: 13
TOSSUP: It didn’t happen in England, but this man once eliminated a rival warlord by sending an assassin to lay in wait in his enemy’s latrine and stab him with a spear while he was relieving himself. This man destroyed the temple of Enryaku-ji (“EN-ryah-koo-JEE”) during his siege of Mount Hiei (“HEE-ay”), reducing the power of the sōhei (“SO-hay”), or warrior monks, who opposed him. This man took revenge on the ikkō-ikki (“eek-KOH-eek-KEE”) by destroying their stronghold at Nagashima. In one battle, this man set up gunmen behind wooden palisades in three ranks to minimize reloading time. In a Japanese idiom, this man “pounds the national rice cake.” This man was forced to commit suicide after Akechi Mitsuhide (“ah-KEH-chee meet-soo-hee-day”) betrayed him in the Honnō-ji (“HONE-noh-JEE”) incident. This man defeated the Takeda clan using arquebusiers (“AR-kwuh-buh-SEERS”) at the Battle of Nagashino. For 10 points, name this first great unifier of Japan along with Toyotomi Hideyoshi and Tokugawa Ieyasu.
ANSWER: Oda Nobunaga [prompt on Nobunaga] &lt;World History&gt;

152.
ID: 159312  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet D (NYU A, Rutgers A, Michigan A, and Oxford A) | Number: 14
TOSSUP: A story by this author inspired the title of a novel in which Stuart Ressler studies the structure of the DNA molecule. The protagonist of a story by this author gets mad at his African-American servant for confusing his left eye with his right eye. The protagonist of that story by this author initially struggles to understand what is meant by the phrase “Bishop’s Hostel” until he realizes that it refers to a rock called Bessop’s Castle. This author helped popularize cryptography with a story about William Legrand’s search for treasure. The narrator of a story by this author reads The Mad Trist to a man who dies of fright when his twin sister Madeline, who he thought was dead, appears in the doorway. For 10 points, name this author of “The Gold-Bug” and “The Fall of the House of Usher.”
ANSWER: Edgar Allan Poe (The novel in the first sentence is The Gold Bug Variations by Richard Powers.) &lt;American Literature&gt;

153.
ID: 159319  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature World
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet D (NYU A, Rutgers A, Michigan A, and Oxford A) | Number: 21
TOSSUP: The end of this book describes how “a full moon shone like a slice of raw onion” after a character puts a wedge of dolphin in a rusty tin. A character in this book becomes obsessed with one of his ancestors, a midshipman who died at the Battle of the Saintes (“sant”). This book opens with a character explaining to a group of tourists “This is how, one sunrise, we cut down them canoes.” In this book, a swift that flies across the Atlantic Ocean carries a seed that can heal the wound of the fisherman Philoctete (“fee-lohk-TET”). Characters in this poem include the blind Seven Seas, who frequents Ma Kilman’s shop, and the Englishman Major Plunkett and his wife Maud. For 10 points, name this epic poem that transports the characters of the Iliad to St. Lucia (“LOO-sha”), written by Derek Walcott.
ANSWER: Omeros &lt;World Literature&gt; Bonuses

154.
ID: 159326  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet E (Penn State B, Berkeley A, and Harvard A) | Number: 7
TOSSUP: This leader completely abandoned the economic policies he had campaigned on in the so-called “austerity turn.” A 1994 book by Pierre Péan (“pay-AWN”) revealed this man’s involvement with the right-wing Cross of Fire party during World War II. This man’s namesake doctrine refers to his refusal to extradite suspected members of the Red Brigades to Italy. He abolished capital punishment in his country by signing the Badinter (“bah-dan-TAIR”) Act. This politician described a “southern wind” of democratization blowing across Africa in the 1990 La Baule (“la bowl”) speech and controversially ordered the sinking of the Rainbow Warrior. After his party lost in the 1986 elections, he was forced to share power in an arrangement known as “cohabitation” with his eventual successor Jacques Chirac. For 10 points, name this socialist President of France who served from 1981 to 1995.
ANSWER: François Mitterand [or François Maurice Adrien Marie Mitterand] &lt;European History&gt;

155.
ID: 159335  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet E (Penn State B, Berkeley A, and Harvard A) | Number: 16
TOSSUP: Over 4 percent of the population of Alaska belongs to this ethnic group, including many people who are descended from migrant workers in the salmon canning industry. The Rescission Act of 1946 stripped veterans of this ethnicity of promised benefits, leading to them being called “second-class veterans.” Members of this ethnic group [emphasize] initiated the Delano grape strike that Cesar Chavez later joined. Members of this ethnic group were the first Asians to set foot in the New World, having reached California in 1587 aboard a galleon destined for Acapulco. Members of this ethnic group were reclassified from being US nationals to foreign aliens with the Tydings–McDuffie Act. For 10 points, name this ethnic group whose members are called Pinoys and who often settled in Little Manilas.
ANSWER: Filipino-Americans [or Fil-Ams; accept Pinoys until read] &lt;American History&gt;

156.
ID: 159354  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Philosophy | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet F (Yale A, Gettysburg A, and Iowa) | Number: 14
TOSSUP: This kind of state was contrasted with a similarly-named, automatic counterpart in a pair of 2008 papers by Tamar Gendler. The so-called “recruitment” of these states in order to carry information is analyzed in Fred Dretske’s (“DRET-skee’s”) Explaining Behavior. To attain one status, these states must be linked to their objects by “causal chains,” according to a 1967 paper by Alvin Goldman. Robert Nozick (“NO-zick”) assessed the reliability of these states in his “truth-tracking” theory. In a 1963 paper, one of these propositional attitudes fails to take into account the ten coins in Smith’s pocket, and is thus both true and justified, but not knowledge, according to Edmund Gettier (“GETTY-er”). For 10 points, name these attitudes in which something is regarded as true.
ANSWER: beliefs [prompt on reasons] (Gendler distinguished beliefs from “aliefs.”) &lt;Philosophy&gt;

157.
ID: 159361  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet F (Yale A, Gettysburg A, and Iowa) | Number: 21
TOSSUP: The “anti-bureaucratic revolution” overthrew governments of two autonomous regions in this leader’s country and replaced them with his allies. This leader was overthrown in a revolt whose most iconic moment was when a bulldozer operator charged into this leader’s main propaganda building. This leader was dubbed “Little Lazar” after he gave a nationalist speech commemorating the 600th anniversary of the Battle of the Field of Blackbirds. This man’s death of a heart attack at the Hague officially ended his five-year-long trial for war crimes, which included approving the massacre of 8,000 Muslim men and boys at Srebrenica (“s’reh-bren-IT-sah”). Along with Alija Izetbegović (“ah-LEE-ah ee-zet-BEG-oh-vitch”) and Franjo Tudjman (“FRAHN-yo TOOJ-mahn”), this man signed the Dayton Peace Accords, ending the Bosnian War. For 10 points, name this former Yugoslav leader and first president of Serbia.
ANSWER: Slobodan Milošević &lt;European History&gt; Bonuses

158.
ID: 159372  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Other
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet G (Cambridge A, Carleton College A, and Penn A) | Number: 11
TOSSUP: The final sentence of an essay claims that this technique has emerged twice: at the end of “antique theocracy” and when “modern ‘anthropocracy’ (“anthro-PAW-cracy”) first reared itself.” That essay about this technique “as symbolic form” is by Erwin Panofsky. An advocate of this technique developed a method for it dubbed the “legitimate construction” by later scholars. One historian blamed an obsession with this technique for the eccentric personality of an artist who used it at the bottom of his painting The Hunt in the Forest. A key figure in the development of this technique demonstrated it by aligning a painting of a baptistery with the baptistery itself, and having viewers look through a hole in the back. That man, Filippo Brunelleschi, helped popularize this technique’s “linear” form. For 10 points, name this technique developed during the Renaissance to illustrate pictorial depth and distance on a flat surface.
ANSWER: perspective [or linear perspective; accept Perspective as Symbolic Form] (The third clue refers to Alberti’s De pictura.) &lt;Painting&gt;

159.
ID: 159384  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet H (Cambridge B, Berkeley B, Columbia B, and Cornell) | Number: 2
TOSSUP: Burgess and Ohlmayer discovered that chiral (“KYE-rull”) rhodium-phosphine complexes could be used for asymmetric types of this reaction. An enantioselective form of this reaction uses a bis-isopinocamphenyl derivative of its main reagent. A simple reagent used in this reaction can be stabilized using a small amount of NIMBA or sodium borohydride. One reagent used in this reaction usually exists as a dimer with hydride bridges and contains two nonane groups; that reagent can also be used in Suzuki couplings. Performing this reaction on terminal alkynes produces aldehydes via tautomerization. This reaction often uses bulky reagents like 9-BBN. This reaction is complementary to oxymercuration and uses hydrogen peroxide in its second step to form a hydroxyl. For 10 points, name this anti-Markovnikov addition that uses an electron-deficient element with atomic number 5.
ANSWER: hydroboration-oxidation [accept Suzuki coupling or Suzuki reaction until read] &lt;Chemistry&gt;

160.
ID: 159393  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet H (Cambridge B, Berkeley B, Columbia B, and Cornell) | Number: 11
TOSSUP: This author described his friend Constantine Cavafy as “a Greek gentleman in a straw hat, standing absolutely motionless at a slight angle to the universe.” The protagonist of a novel by this author yells “Come!” in the middle of the night, thinking that nobody will hear him, leading a gamekeeper to climb into his bedroom with a ladder. In that novel by this author, the protagonist learns about the ancient Greeks from Clive Durham and has a relationship with Alec Scudder. This author wrote a novel in which Leonard Bast is attacked by Charles Wilcox and dies, after which Margaret Schlegel and Henry Wilcox move into the title estate. In another novel by this author, Adela Quested falsely accuses Dr. Aziz of sexual assault when they travel into the Marabar Caves. For 10 points, name this author of Maurice (“Morris”), Howards End, and A Passage to India.
ANSWER: E. M. Forster [or Edward Morgan Forster] &lt;British Literature&gt;

161.
ID: 159408  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Trash | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet I (OSU A, Rice A, and Yale B) | Number: 5
TOSSUP: A musician with this surname may have been influenced by street preacher Madkin Butler, as seen in a song recorded with Willie B. Harris titled for the writer of a “Book of Seven Seals”; that song is “John the Revelator.” An alcoholic guitarist with this last name sang about drinking Sterno in “Canned Heat Blues.” A musician with this surname used a knife instead of a bottleneck in his slide guitar accompaniment to a gospel blues track that was included on the Voyager Golden Record, titled “Dark Was the Night”; that musician’s name was “Blind Willie.” Two unrelated musicians with this surname, one of whom was featured on the album King of the Delta Blues Singers, are said to have met a shady figure at a crossroads to gain their skills. For 10 points, give this surname of Tommy and Robert, both guitarists who allegedly sold their souls to the devil.
ANSWER: Johnson [accept Blind Willie Johnson, Tommy Johnson, or Robert Johnson] &lt;Other Arts&gt;

162.
ID: 159412  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet I (OSU A, Rice A, and Yale B) | Number: 9
TOSSUP: Cyril Connolly edited a literary journal of this name that published an issue containing the entirety of Evelyn Waugh’s (“EEV-lin WAW’s”) The Loved One. At the end of Their Eyes Were Watching God, Janie pulls this thing in “like a great fish net,” echoing the mention of this thing in the novel’s opening paragraph. The frame narrative of a novel named after this thing involves a neurologist telling the story to a novelist named Rutherford. That novel named after this thing is about Hugh Conway, who meets a Manchu woman named Lo-Tsen at a lamasery in the Kuen-Lun Mountains whose inhabitants live for an extremely long time. This thing titles a 1933 novel set in the utopian valley of Shangri-La. For 10 points, a James Hilton novel is named for a “lost” version of what thing, which is the line where the sky and the Earth seem to meet?
ANSWER: the horizon [accept Lost Horizon] &lt;Other Literature&gt;

163.
ID: 159316  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Trash | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet D (NYU A, Rutgers A, Michigan A, and Oxford A) | Number: 18
TOSSUP: Gangs from this city called the Golden Kane and the Imperial 9s appear in Stranglehold, a video game sequel to a movie set in this city. A film character who repeatedly buys tins of pineapple with a specific expiration date seeks out a woman in a blonde wig in this city’s Bottoms Up Club, which is where Nick Nack steals the slain Gibson’s “Solex agitator” in The Man With The Golden Gun. Brigitte Lin’s character runs a drug-smuggling operation out of the Chungking Mansions in this city, which is also home to the heavy-drinking cop Tequila Yuen in the film Hard Boiled. This city contains a park on the former site of a densely-populated district called Kowloon Walled City. Many films directed by Wong Kar-Wai and John Woo are set in, for 10 points, what special administrative region of China?
ANSWER: Hong Kong [anti-prompt on Kowloon by asking “Can you be less specific?” before “Kowloon”] &lt;Trash&gt;

164.
ID: 159405  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet I (OSU A, Rice A, and Yale B) | Number: 2
TOSSUP: Filmmaker Simon Bright directed a 2011 documentary about this leader’s life whose title asks “What Happened?” Human rights activist Peter Tatchell has tried to perform a citizen’s arrest of this leader twice, in 1999 and again in 2001. This leader blamed a 1981 bombing of his party’s headquarters on agents of South Africa’s apartheid government. This leader won the first elections held after the 1979 Lancaster House Agreement was signed. This man’s North Korean-trained Fifth Brigade massacred Ndebele (“in-DEB-eh-lay”) supporters of his rival Joshua Nkomo in what is called the Gukurahundi. This leader was opposed by Morgan Tsvangirai (“CHANG-ee-rye”), who led the MDC party in opposition to this leader’s ZANU-PF party. A 2017 coup overthrew, for 10 points, what longtime president of Zimbabwe?
ANSWER: Robert Mugabe [or Robert Gabriel Mugabe] &lt;World History&gt;

165.
ID: 159428  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet J (Texas A, Oxford B, UIUC C, and Maryland B) | Number: 4
TOSSUP: This president’s 16-year-old son died of an infected blister while playing tennis on the White House lawn. American occupation of the Dominican Republic ended under this president. A bill that would have created a federal board to buy excess crops from farmers was twice vetoed by this president. This president has often been criticized for refusing to visit the victims of the Great Mississippi Flood. The Bonus Act was passed despite this president’s veto. This man became president upon the sudden death of his predecessor at the Palace Hotel in San Francisco, though he did win an election against Democrat John W. Davis. A plan to assist with German reparation payments was drawn up by this man’s vice president Charles Dawes. For 10 points, name this president who succeeded Warren G. Harding.
ANSWER: Calvin Coolidge [or John Calvin Coolidge] &lt;American History&gt;

166.
ID: 159432  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History British
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet J (Texas A, Oxford B, UIUC C, and Maryland B) | Number: 8
TOSSUP: The Bawdy House riots broke out during this man’s reign because he banned private lay worship while permitting brothels to open. This ruler hid in an oak tree on the grounds of Boscobel House after a military defeat. This ruler secretly converted to Catholicism in the Treaty of Dover, which he signed with his cousin Louis XIV. This king rewarded George Monck for his role in helping him become king. This philandering ruler had many mistresses like Moll Davis and Nell Gwyn despite being married to Catherine of Braganza. Titus Oates made up a fictitious plan that Catholics were planning on assassinating this king in the Popish Plot. During the Great Fire of London, this king returned from exile to end the English Interregnum. For 10 points, name this Stuart king who acceded to the throne in the Restoration.
ANSWER: Charles II of England [prompt on Charles] &lt;British History&gt;

167.
ID: 159343  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Current Events | Subcategory: Current Events Other
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet F (Yale A, Gettysburg A, and Iowa) | Number: 3
TOSSUP: This leader required that nongovernmental organizations receiving 25,000 dollars or more in donations were required to label themselves as “foreign-funded.” This man rose to party leadership after protesting the unmarked burial of Pál Maléter (“pal mah-LAY-ter”) and three others in the Municipal Cemetery. Billboards reading “The people have decided. The country has to be protected” were erected after this leader approved a border wall against Serbia and Croatia. This leader made the creation of an “illiberal state” a founding principle of his Fidesz (“FEE-dess”) party. Shortly after the US Holocaust Museum denounced him for praising Miklós Horthy (“MEEK-lohsh HOR-tee”), his government printed propaganda posters depicting a grinning George Soros. For 10 points, name this authoritarian Prime Minister of Hungary.
ANSWER: Viktor Orbán [or Viktor Mihály Orbán] &lt;Current Events&gt;

168.
ID: 159527  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet N (MIT, UIUC A, and Virginia Tech) | Number: 19
TOSSUP: DOPE/CHEMS liposomes are sensitive to this quantity. BCECF-AM is used to measure this quantity in flow cytometry. A standard scale for this quantity relies on the Bates–Guggenheim convention to calculate the activity of chloride. Stable phases in an electrochemical solution are found by plotting potential against this quantity. Measurements of this quantity are confounded by the residual liquid junction potential. Carboranes and fluorinated antimony compounds are subject to the leveling effect, where solvent decreases this quantity, necessitating the use of the Hammett function instead. The value of this quantity for which an amino acid has zero net charge is the isoelectric point. It equals pKa plus the log of conjugate base over acid by the Henderson–Hasselbalch equation. Buffers keep this quantity constant. For 10 points, name this quantity equal to the log of the H-plus concentration.
ANSWER: pH [prompt on acidity or basicity] &lt;Chemistry&gt;

169.
ID: 159338  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet E (Penn State B, Berkeley A, and Harvard A) | Number: 19
TOSSUP: Note to moderator: Read the answerline carefully. This functional group serves as the linkage between the linear form of fructose-1,6-bisphosphate and the active site of aldolase. Two of these functional groups are formed by the sigmatropic rearrangement step in the Fischer indole synthesis. One of these functional groups is protonated and attacked by a cyanide group in the Strecker synthesis. This functional group is selectively reduced by sodium cyanoborohydride. Oximes (“OX-eems”) and hydrazones are hydroxyl and amine derivatives of this functional group, respectively. When these functional groups are alkyl or aryl substituted, they are called Schiff bases. They can be formed by a reaction between an aldehyde and primary amine. For 10 points, name these functional groups that contain a carbon–nitrogen double bond.
ANSWER: imines (“IM-eens” or “EYE-meens”) [accept Schiff bases until read; accept aldimines and ketimines; do not accept or prompt on “amines” – ask them to spell it if necessary] &lt;Chemistry&gt;

170.
ID: 159523  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Mythology | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet N (MIT, UIUC A, and Virginia Tech) | Number: 15
TOSSUP: In one creation myth of these people, a god creates men from golden insects and women from silver insects, but is later eaten after turning into a deer, resulting in the creation of evil. After a ferryman refused to let three gods of disease enter the land of these people, a virgin goddess of these people severed his head and inflicted smallpox on his children. A semi-legendary king of these people was said to have been able to summon a bridge of turtles using his bow and arrow, and another king of these people was said to have been born after a tiger lost a contest to a bear who ate mugwort and garlic in a cave for 100 years. Mount Baekdu (“beck-doo”), a sacred site of these people, was the birthplace of their legendary king Dangun (“dahn-goon”). For 10 points, name these East Asian people who recorded their myths in the Samguk Yusa, which was written during the Goryeo (“gor-yuh”) dynasty.
ANSWER: Koreans [accept Hanminjok or Hancha; accept answers referring to Jeju Island; accept Goryeo until read] &lt;Mythology&gt;

171.
ID: 159365  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Math
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet G (Cambridge A, Carleton College A, and Penn A) | Number: 4
TOSSUP: This mathematician usually names a formula consisting of a factor “e-to-the-negative-gamma-z, all over z” times an infinite product, his “canonical product” for the gamma function. He’s not Jacobi, but a class of doubly-periodic meromorphic functions introduced by this mathematician can be used to parameterize elliptic curves and are written with a script P. This mathematician introduced a function written as the infinite sum, over n, of a-to-the-n times the cosine of the quantity “b-to-the-n times pi x.” He is the second namesake of a theorem about sequentially compact subsets of Rn that can be proved by constructing a monotonic subsequence. A pathological function named for this man was the first known function to be continuous everywhere despite its derivative never existing. For 10 points, name this German mathematician who co-names a theorem about convergent subsequences with Bernard Bolzano.
ANSWER: Karl Weierstrass (“VYE-ur-shtross”) [or Karl Theodor Wilhelm Weierstrass] &lt;Other Science (Math)&gt;

172.
ID: 159352  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet F (Yale A, Gettysburg A, and Iowa) | Number: 12
TOSSUP: The main theme of the second movement of a symphony by this composer may have come from a song from Faust set by Carl Friedrich Zelter. A symphony by this composer opens with the violas playing a slow, transposed version of the four-note first theme of the finale of the Jupiter Symphony. Due to its resemblance to a Berlioz piece, the slow movement of this composer’s fourth symphony is sometimes called a “Pilgrim’s March.” The introduction of this composer’s Fifth Symphony quotes a rising motif known as the “Dresden Amen.” This composer’s Third Symphony features a short-long rhythm called the “Lombard” or “snap” rhythm. This composer wrote his Fifth Symphony for the tricentennial of the Augsburg Confession, and his Fourth Symphony was inspired by dances like the tarantella and saltarello. For 10 points, name this composer of the Reformation, Scottish, and Italian symphonies.
ANSWER: Felix Mendelssohn [or Felix Mendelssohn Bartholdy] &lt;Music&gt;

173.
ID: 159517  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Other
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet N (MIT, UIUC A, and Virginia Tech) | Number: 9
TOSSUP: P Cygni (“SIG-nee”) profiles are spectroscopic features caused by this phenomenon. This phenomenon can be “driven” by photon absorption by particular spectral lines. It’s not an accretion disk, but a magnetic field forces this phenomenon to co-rotate with its source when it is within the Alfvén (“all-VANE”) radius. The “fast” form of this phenomenon forms from open regions of a magnetic field called coronal holes. This phenomenon causes mass loss in Wolf–Rayet stars. This phenomenon slows down abruptly at the termination shock, and it stops at the heliopause, where the interstellar medium begins. Comets’ ion tails always point away from a star due to this phenomenon. Charged particles in this substance interact with the Earth’s magnetosphere, producing auroras. For 10 points, name this stream of charged particles emitted from the outer regions of stars.
ANSWER: stellar wind [or solar wind; prompt on interplanetary medium or IPM] &lt;Other Science (Astronomy)&gt;

174.
ID: 159516  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet N (MIT, UIUC A, and Virginia Tech) | Number: 8
TOSSUP: The central family in this novel goes to Vincent’s once a month to eat baked ziti. A character in this novel wears a veil made from the bottom of an old stocking, which she says helps prevent her stuttering. The protagonist of this novel makes his fortune by taking over his father’s luxury glove factory. That protagonist has an affair with his daughter’s speech therapist, Sheila Salzman. Rita Cohen sexually taunts the protagonist of this novel, and helps him locate his missing daughter. In this novel, a former Miss New Jersey named Dawn Dwyer gets a facelift to impress the architect Bill Orcutt, with whom she has an affair. Prior to the action of this novel, Merry plants a bomb in a post office in protest of the Vietnam War. Nathan Zuckerman narrates, for 10 points, what novel about Seymour “The Swede” Levov’s supposedly idyllic life, written by Philip Roth?
ANSWER: American Pastoral &lt;American Literature&gt;

175.
ID: 159449  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet K (Northwestern A, Oregon, Maryland A, and Auburn A) | Number: 4
TOSSUP: Northwestern professor Sarah Maza argued that the existence of a certain social class during this event was a myth. A phase of this event lends its name to the period of “convalescence” that follows a period of “fever” in events like this one according to a 1938 book by Crane Brinton. Lynn Hunt has written multiple books about this event, including a 1992 book that explores the “family romance” of it. Simon Schama argued that violence was fundamental to this event in his book Citizens. A conservative pamphlet written about this event called it “the most astonishing that has hitherto happened in the world” and predicted that its focus on abstract rights would doom it to failure. Edmund Burke wrote a set of “reflections” on, for 10 points, what event which overthrew Louis XVI?
ANSWER: French Revolution [accept The Family Romance of the French Revolution; accept Inventing the French Revolution; accept Reflections on the Revolution in France] &lt;European History&gt;

176.
ID: 159504  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Trash | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet M (Columbia A, Wesleyan, and Chicago A) | Number: 17
TOSSUP: One of these locations is where customer service expert Michael Stone meets a mysterious woman who, unlike the rest of the characters in the film other than Michael, is [emphasize] not voiced by Tom Noonan. A character played by Olivia Colman uses a toaster to burn the fingers of a man caught masturbating in one of these locations that enforces a 45-day deadline for singles to find partners. Anomalisa and The Lobster are set largely in these institutions, one of which titles a Best Picture-winning film in which the dancer Grusinskaya, portrayed by Greta Garbo, declares “I want to be alone.” Two characters who work in one of these places in Zubrowka are pursued by Jopling and Deputy Kovacs after stealing the painting Boy With Apple in a 2014 Wes Anderson film. For 10 points, M. Gustav and Zero work as a concierge and a bellhop at the “Grand Budapest” example of what businesses?
ANSWER: hotels [accept Grand Hotel or Grand Budapest Hotel] &lt;Trash&gt;

177.
ID: 159389  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet H (Cambridge B, Berkeley B, Columbia B, and Cornell) | Number: 7
TOSSUP: This poem inspired Terrance Hayes to create a poetic form that takes a poetic quote and uses each word from the quote as a successive end word. This poem’s author compared a repeated word in this poem to “Kilroy-is-here” announcements in the autobiographical book Report from Part One. A book named after this poem argues that the hip-hop notion of “keeping it real” reflects an emotional immaturity that perversely embraces this poem’s final line. That book, subtitled “Black Men and Masculinity,” is by Bell Hooks. This poem from the collection The Bean Eaters has a subtitle indicating that it’s about “the pool players,” “seven at the Golden Shovel.” The main characters of this poem “lurk late,” “strike straight,” and “jazz June.” For 10 points, name this eight-line poem by Gwendolyn Brooks consisting of eight three-word sentences starting with the word “we.”
ANSWER: “We Real Cool” (The form created by Terrance Hayes is called the Golden Shovel. I’ve capitalized bell hooks’s name for ease of reading, but her name is written without capitals.) &lt;American Literature&gt;

178.
ID: 159503  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet M (Columbia A, Wesleyan, and Chicago A) | Number: 16
TOSSUP: This organelle may contain thick ring-shaped bodies called clastosomes, which contain a high concentration of proteasome components. The sp100 antigen is present in “dots” found in this organelle. Immunofluorescence against Hep-2 cells is used to detect antibodies to this organelle, which can stain in homogenous, peripheral, and speckled patterns. Survival of motor neuron protein localizes to gems within this organelle, which is stained using DAPI. Karyopherins help regulate transport in and out of this organelle, which contains pore complexes on its namesake envelope. This organelle contains chromatin, which condenses into chromosomes during prophase. For 10 points, name this eukaryotic organelle that contains genomic DNA.
ANSWER: nucleus [or nuclei] &lt;Biology&gt;

179.
ID: 159415  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet I (OSU A, Rice A, and Yale B) | Number: 12
TOSSUP: One type of these materials has symmetry-protected helical edge states, and has been realized by sandwiching mercury telluride between two layers of cadmium telluride. Another class of these materials is predicted by a theory with a hopping term between lattice sites and an on-site interaction in its Hamiltonian. The Hubbard model describes a class of these materials with an odd number of electrons per unit cell, which only exist at low temperature and deviate from the predictions of band theory. That Mott type of these materials is contrasted with ordinary examples with a filled valence band. At high voltages, these materials experience a “breakdown,” losing their characteristic property. These materials have a large bandgap over 9 eV (“E-V”). Plastics and rubbers are good examples of these materials. For 10 points, name these materials that resist the flow of electric current.
ANSWER: insulators [accept quantum spin Hall insulators, (2D) topological insulators, or Mott insulators] &lt;Physics&gt;

180.
ID: 159402  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet H (Cambridge B, Berkeley B, Columbia B, and Cornell) | Number: 20
TOSSUP: This dynasty created the Salt Industry Commission to sell merchants the right to buy salt from a government monopoly. A court favorite during this dynasty had fresh lychees (“lee-chees”) delivered by horseback from Guangdong. Powerful military governors called jiedushi (“j’YEH-doo-shurr”) during this dynasty gained unprecedented autonomy during it. A blank stele (“stee-lee”) in front of the Qianling (“ch’yen-ling”) Mausoleum was intended to eulogize a ruler of this dynasty who ordered the death of Empress Wang (“wong”). The Japanese monk Ennin (“EN-neen”) was deported during this dynasty’s Great Anti-Buddhist Persecution. This dynasty was crippled by a rebellion led by a Sogdian (“SOG-dee-in”) general who was the lover of Emperor Xuanzong’s (“shwen-dzong’s”) concubine Yang Guifei (“yong gway-fay”). For 10 points, name this dynasty of China that was briefly ruled by Wu Zetian (“woo dzuh-t’yen”) and faced the An Lushan Rebellion.
ANSWER: Tang Dynasty &lt;World History&gt;

181.
ID: 159501  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet M (Columbia A, Wesleyan, and Chicago A) | Number: 14
TOSSUP: Robert the Monk, in his Historia Hierosolymitana, described soldiers wading through knee-deep blood in this city during a massacre that resulted from its capture. Tancred of Hauteville (“oat-VEEL”) claimed to be the first conqueror to enter this city. Frederick II visited this city in 1229, where he was crowned king of it. An army hoping to capture this city at the Battle of Ascalon was driven off by Godfrey of Bouillon (“bwee-YON”), the first ruler of a kingdom based in this city. A king of this city who suffered from leprosy was named Baldwin IV. The Battle of the Horns of Hattin allowed the capture of this city from Guy of Lusignan (“ghee of LOO-zin-yon”). Frederick Barbarossa and Richard the Lionheart set out to recapture this city after its fall in 1187. Saladin captured, for 10 points, what city, whose capture was the goal of many Crusades?
ANSWER: Jerusalem [or Yerushalayim; or al-Quds] &lt;European History&gt;

182.
ID: 159490  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Mythology | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet M (Columbia A, Wesleyan, and Chicago A) | Number: 3
TOSSUP: In a myth of these people, an agricultural god used a secret stash of string in order to win the world’s first kite-flying contest. After an attempted murder by his in-laws, a figure sacred to these people was miraculously nursed back to health with the aid of a fire fueled by a single giant log. That figure worshipped by these people later climbed to heaven on a giant vine with the aid of his grandmother, a cannibalistic goddess of thunder. Deities worshipped by these people are often depicted on “god sticks.” Several myths about these people were first written down by George Grey while he served as the governor of their home country. According to their myths, the first man was Tiki. These people herald the arrival of the goddess of summer with a ceremonial dance called the haka. For 10 points, name this Polynesian ethnic group, the indigenous people of New Zealand.
ANSWER: Māori [prompt on Polynesians] &lt;Mythology&gt;

183.
ID: 159486  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet L (Delaware, UCSD A, and Amherst A) | Number: 20
TOSSUP: Gebser v. Lago Vista Independent School District established the criteria that in order to be held liable, school districts must have actual, not constructive, notice of this phenomenon and display “deliberate indifference” toward it. According to Barbara Gutek’s theory of this phenomenon, a form of “spillover” leads to the frequent experience of it by people in nontraditional roles. In Meritor Savings Bank v. Vinson, the Supreme Court adopted the category of “quid pro quo” as one form of this phenomenon, drawing on Catharine MacKinnon’s argument that it is an illegal form of discrimination. In deciding cases about this phenomenon, courts often try to determine whether it is sufficiently “severe or pervasive” to produce a “hostile environment” and employ the “reasonable woman standard.” For 10 points, name this two-word phrase that refers to bullying and coercion typically targeted towards women.
ANSWER: sexual harassment [accept word forms and more specific forms, such as sexual harassment of students, sexual harassment of employees, etc.; prompt on harassment, sex discrimination, gender discrimination, or bullying until read] &lt;Social Science&gt;

184.
ID: 159484  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet L (Delaware, UCSD A, and Amherst A) | Number: 18
TOSSUP: This empire’s artists made magnificent halberds of gold and silver for initiation rites in which nobility would don a red tunic and have their ears pierced, allowing them to wear huge earrings to mark their status. Rectangular residences in this empire were often neatly fitted around a central plaza by organizing them into kancha blocks. Uniquely, this empire’s architecture features numerous walls made of irregularly shaped stones which were fitted together without mortar or paste. This empire’s ayllu (“EYE-loo”) clan structure organized the citizens who paid taxes in-kind via labor through its mit’a system. This empire used that labor to build a vast road network that connected its namesake “Four Regions,” or Tawantinsuyu (“tah-wan-teen-SOO-yoo”), from the puna grasslands of Ecuador to Chile. For 10 points, name this pre-Columbian empire centered in the Andes.
ANSWER: Inca Empire [accept Tawantinsuyu until read] &lt;World History&gt;

185.
ID: 159481  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature European
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet L (Delaware, UCSD A, and Amherst A) | Number: 15
TOSSUP: This character listens to a rival’s howl, which is composed of the single vowel “A,” and notices that that rival’s hair is completely white, in a poem by Zbigniew (“z’BIG-nyeff”) Herbert. A poem that mentions “the way a morning sometimes looks through boughs not yet in leaf” is titled for an “early” version of this character. A poem named for this character describes a smile that runs through “to that dark center where procreation flared.” A representation of this character is “suffused with brilliance from inside, like a lamp,” even though “we cannot know his legendary head with eyes like ripening fruit.” A Dinggedicht (“DING-guh-dict”), or thing-poem, named after this character ends with the abrupt declaration “You must change your life.” For 10 points, Rainer Maria Rilke (“RILL-kuh”) wrote a poem about an “archaic torso” of what Greek god?
ANSWER: Apollo [accept “Apollo and Marsyas” or “Early Apollo” or “Archaic Torso of Apollo”] &lt;European Literature&gt;

186.
ID: 159476  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet L (Delaware, UCSD A, and Amherst A) | Number: 10
TOSSUP: One gene that regulates these phenomena is unusually encoded by the complementary strand of the thyroid receptor gene. The DLMO protocol and actigraphy are used to diagnose disorders of these phenomena, which can be studied by measuring levels of a 6-sulphatoxy metabolite of a certain hormone in the urine. The nuclear receptors Rev-ErbA (“reverb-uh”) alpha and beta are critical to controlling these phenomena, which are also controlled by a negative feedback loop induced by the BMAL1 transcription factor. In Drosophila (“druh-SOFF-ill-uh”), the TIM protein stabilizes PER, which is displaced by CRY to reset these phenomena in a light-dependent manner. Entrainers are used to synchronize these phenomena, which in humans are controlled by the suprachiasmatic nucleus, which triggers the pineal gland to release melatonin. For 10 points, name these 24-hour cycles in animals.
ANSWER: circadian rhythms [accept sleep-wake cycles or sleep] &lt;Biology&gt;

187.
ID: 159442  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature European
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet J (Texas A, Oxford B, UIUC C, and Maryland B) | Number: 18
TOSSUP: In a book about this author titled for a “resurrection,” René Girard (“zhee-RARR”) points out the irony of the repeated use of the phrase “I am alone and they are everyone” by one of this author’s narrators. A book about this author introduces the notion of the “unfinalizability” of the self and relates it to the “polyphony” (“puh-LIFF-uh-nee”) of voices in this author’s works. That book on the problems of this author’s poetics is by Mikhail Bakhtin (“bock-TEEN”). One of this author’s characters ridicules Chernyshevsky’s (“chur-nee-SHEFF-skee’s”) utopian symbol of the Crystal Palace, and deliberately bumps into an officer on the street in the section “Apropos of the Wet Snow.” The inspector Porfiry quizzes the protagonist on an article suggesting that some men have a right to commit murder in a novel by this author in which Raskolnikov kills a pawnbroker. For 10 points, name this author of Notes from Underground and Crime and Punishment.
ANSWER: Fyodor Dostoevsky [or Fyodor Mikhailovich Dostoevsky] &lt;European Literature&gt;

188.
ID: 159441  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History Classical
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet J (Texas A, Oxford B, UIUC C, and Maryland B) | Number: 17
TOSSUP: The Treasure of Guarrazar contains 26 votive crowns and crosses offered to the Catholic Church by leaders of these people. These people’s namesake law code was promulgated by Chindasuinth and superseded the earlier Code of Leovigild. The last king of these people was killed by invading forces under Tariq ibn Zayid. The Kingdom of Asturias was founded by a leader of these people called Pelagius, who won the Battle of Covadonga. A king of these people allied with Flavius Aetius to win the Battle of the Catalaunian Plains, where he was killed. These people were pushed out of Gaul after their defeat at the Battle of Vouillé (“vwee-YAY”). These people sacked Rome in 410 under their leader Alaric. For 10 points, name these people who are contrasted with their eastern counterparts, the Ostrogoths.
ANSWER: Visigoths [prompt on Goths] &lt;European History&gt;

189.
ID: 159470  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Religion | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet L (Delaware, UCSD A, and Amherst A) | Number: 4
TOSSUP: The founder of a religion practiced in this country was killed in an ambush at the Field of Reeds and had earlier managed to get himself out of an insane asylum by converting his psychiatrist. A religion originating in this country that centers around the consumption of coconuts was briefly practiced by John Steinbeck IV, the son of the famous author. The missionary Pigneau de Béhaine (“peen-YO duh bay-EN”) was responsible for the conversion of a prominent family from this country, which is also home to the agrarian Buddhist sect of Hoahaoism (“hwah-how-ism”). A religion that was founded in this country uses the left eye of God as its primary symbol and worships Victor Hugo as a saint. Cao Dai (“cow die”) originated in, for 10 points, what southeast Asian country where Catholicism was practiced by several emperors of the Nguyen (“win”) dynasty?
ANSWER: Vietnam [or Socialist Republic of Vietnam; or Cộng hòa xã hội chủ nghĩa Việt Nam] &lt;Religion&gt;

190.
ID: 159469  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Other
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet L (Delaware, UCSD A, and Amherst A) | Number: 3
TOSSUP: Two answers required. Though neither is related to pressure, these two quantities are measured in situ by CTD sondes (“sonds”), which can be paired with Niskin bottles to take samples. An abrupt increase in these two quantities in the Northern Atlantic is caused by the intrusion of MIW, which forms a distinct water mass below the common water. The meridional overturning circulation is primarily driven by gradients in these two quantities. Water in the Mediterranean Sea has high values of these quantities because of its low input and proximity to the Equator. These two quantities primarily determine the density of seawater, which is why Antarctic Bottom Water sinks. For 10 points, name the two driving forces behind the thermohaline circulation, which are often measured in degrees Celsius and parts per thousand.
ANSWER: temperature AND salinity [accept thermohaline circulation until read; accept temperature AND conductivity in the first sentence; accept descriptions of “salinity” like salt level or salt concentration; prompt on just concentration for “salinity”] &lt;Other Science (Earth Science)&gt;

191.
ID: 159461  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet K (Northwestern A, Oregon, Maryland A, and Auburn A) | Number: 16
TOSSUP: The ability of an acid or base to act as a general type of these substances is determined by the libido rule. Methylaluminoxane is used to activate one type of these substances by forming an ion pair. Plotting activity versus binding strength allows selection of an optimum one of these via the Sabatier principle. They can undergo leaching if they are improperly bonded to their supports. Cinchona (“sin-KOH-nuh”) alkaloids and quaternary ammonium salts operate as these substances by moving ions between phases. Quinoline and lead acetate are used to poison one of these substances named for Lindlar that is used to create alkenes (“AL-keens”) from alkynes (“AL-kines”). Depending on whether they exist in the same phase as the reactants, they are classified as homogeneous or heterogeneous. For 10 points, name these substances that decrease the activation energy of a reaction.
ANSWER: catalysts [accept Lindlar catalysts; anti-prompt on enzymes by asking “can you be less specific?”] &lt;Chemistry&gt;

192.
ID: 159497  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet M (Columbia A, Wesleyan, and Chicago A) | Number: 10
TOSSUP: Several decades after giving up on copying a painting of a tree by this artist because it was too difficult, Lucian Freud created an etching inspired by that same painting. Before executing some of his paintings, this artist unusually sketched them at full size in oils, according to a biography written by his friend C. R. Leslie. Samuel William Reynolds died before he could finish making a mezzotint of one of this artist’s paintings, which shows a lock-keeper opening a canal gate. Because they were painted on six-by-four-foot canvases, some of this artist’s mature works are nicknamed “six-footers.” He depicted the estate of his patron Francis Slater-Rebow in his painting Wivenhoe Park. This painter included a depiction of Willy Lott’s cottage on the River Stour in one of many paintings he made of the countryside in his native Suffolk. For 10 points, name this English landscape painter of The Hay Wain.
ANSWER: John Constable &lt;Painting&gt;

193.
ID: 159456  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Math
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet K (Northwestern A, Oregon, Maryland A, and Auburn A) | Number: 11
TOSSUP: One can construct a “resolution” of this object based on a given self-adjoint operator where this object is equal to an integral over the operator’s spectrum. The operation of this object and its conjugacy classes on irreducible representations are listed in the first column of a character table. A group’s component group is its quotient group over its connected subgroup that contains this object. Rngs (“rungs”) are named for the fact that they lack these things, making them the non-unital version of rings. An unknot is one of them under knot addition. A monoid is a semigroup that contains one of these elements. The composition of a function with its inverse yields this element. For 10 points, name this element that leaves other elements unchanged under the group operation, which is zero for addition.
ANSWER: identity element [or identity function; accept multiplicative identity or additive identity] &lt;Other Science (Math)&gt;

194.
ID: 159459  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet K (Northwestern A, Oregon, Maryland A, and Auburn A) | Number: 14
TOSSUP: A murdered member of this organization named Herbert Norkus was nicknamed “Quex” and was the subject of a popular novel and film depicting him as a martyr. A wing of this group called the BDM established the Faith and Beauty Society. The Edelweiss Pirates opposed this organization, with one of their slogans being “eternal war on” this organization. Hans Scholl, a founder of the White Rose movement, joined this organization but disagreed with its principles. Baldur von Schirach and Artur Axmann were the only two people to hold the highest possible rank in this organization. Hitler’s last trip out of his bunker was to award Iron Crosses to members of this organization who were defending Berlin. For 10 points, name this Nazi organization comprised of young men between the age of 14 to 18.
ANSWER: Hitler Youth [or Hitlerjugend; prompt on Nazi Party or National Socialist German Workers’ Party or NSDAP] &lt;European History&gt;

195.
ID: 159473  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Mythology | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet L (Delaware, UCSD A, and Amherst A) | Number: 7
TOSSUP: In the story of the Rasa-lila, this instrument provides the music that the gopis of Vrindavana dance to for 4.32 billion years. According to some Chinese legends, one type of this instrument was invented by the Yellow Emperor, though historically it was probably imported during the Han Dynasty. A hunchbacked trickster deity that plays one of these instruments delivers unborn babies to young girls in myths from the American southwest. Krishna is often portrayed in the Tribhanga posture with one of these musical instruments. The Hopi god Kokopelli is commonly depicted playing one of these instruments, which represents his giant penis. For 10 points, name this class of musical instrument invented and played by the Greek god Pan.
ANSWER: flute [or pipe] &lt;Mythology&gt;

196.
ID: 159465  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet K (Northwestern A, Oregon, Maryland A, and Auburn A) | Number: 20
TOSSUP: In one story, a king in the body of an ugly dwarf named Bāhuka teaches the art of horse jockeying to a master of this activity to regain his old body. One instance of this activity was arranged by a king who swore vengeance after his beloved sister was married off to a blind man. During one instance of this activity, a woman vows to keep her hair untied until it is washed with the blood of a man who asked her to sit on his thigh. That woman had earlier been dragged by her hair into the room in which this activity was taking place, where a man’s efforts to disrobe her fail after her dress magically extends. Two consecutive instances of this activity are lost by Yudhishthira, who wagers his kingdom, four brothers, and wife. For 10 points, the Pāndavas are forced into exile after losing their kingdom in what gambling game to the Kauravas, as told in the Mahabhārata?
ANSWER: games of dice [or pachīsi; or parcheesi; or ludo; or chaupar; or chopat; or pagade; prompt on gambling] &lt;Mythology&gt;

197.
ID: 159472  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Other
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet L (Delaware, UCSD A, and Amherst A) | Number: 6
TOSSUP: This musician’s group wrote a six-track album containing the songs “Calcutta Blues” and “Golden Horn,” inspired by a US State Department-funded tour through Eurasia. The reissue of one of this musician’s albums contains a rendition of “So This Is Love” as a bonus track; that album is titled [this musician] Digs Disney. This musician used a Joan Miró (“zhoo-AHN mee-ROH”) painting for the cover of an album whose title says it goes “further” than another of his albums. Another of this musician’s albums includes a piece whose beat structure alternates between 2 + 2 + 2 + 3 and 3 + 3 + 3 and whose title is inspired by Mozart. This collaborator of Paul Desmond had a penchant for unusual time signatures, as can be seen in “Unsquare Dance,” “Blue Rondo à la Turk,” and a song whose title references it being in 5/4. For 10 points, name this jazz pianist whose album Time Out contains “Take Five.”
ANSWER: Dave Brubeck [or David Warren Brubeck] &lt;Other Arts&gt;

198.
ID: 159471  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet L (Delaware, UCSD A, and Amherst A) | Number: 5
TOSSUP: This leader refused clemency to a captured assassin after the assassin stated that all that was needed to capture him was to “take away his spectacles and braces.” This leader appeared on television wearing an army uniform to foil the Generals’ putsch against him. An attempt on this leader’s life inspired the plot of Frederick Forsyth’s novel The Day of the Jackal. This man tersely ordered the driver of his Citroën (“see-troh-EN”) DS limousine to drive faster while it was sprayed with bullets during an assassination attempt by the OAS. Jean Bastien-Thiry was the last person to be executed by firing squad in France for an attempted assassination of this leader after he signed the Evian Accords giving Algeria its independence. For 10 points, name this first president of the Fifth French Republic.
ANSWER: Charles de Gaulle [or Charles André Joseph Marie de Gaulle] &lt;European History&gt;

199.
ID: 159289  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet C (MSU A, NYU B, UCLA A, and Virginia A) | Number: 12
TOSSUP: A mayor of this state’s largest city was nicknamed the “Napoleon of Temperance.” This modern-day state is where the British established the short-lived colony of New Ireland on two separate occasions. A presidential candidate from this state was nicknamed “the plumed knight.” This state’s reputation as a bellwether state for presidential elections led to the saying “as [this state] goes, so goes the nation.” A politician from this state was attacked in a rhyming slogan that called him a “continental liar from” this state. Joshua Chamberlain commanded a regiment of volunteers from this state that held off Confederate attacks on Little Round Top during the Battle of Gettysburg. For 10 points, James G. Blaine was from what state, which also names a battleship sunk in Havana harbor in 1898?
ANSWER: Maine [accept 20th Maine Volunteer Infantry Regiment; accept USS Maine] &lt;American History&gt;

200.
ID: 159478  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet L (Delaware, UCSD A, and Amherst A) | Number: 12
TOSSUP: This king’s ambassador to Venice, Francisco de Vargas, wrote that the Pope was “the poison at the root of all this trouble” after this ruler declared war on the Pope. Henry II of France died during a jousting tournament held to celebrate the marriage of his daughter Elisabeth to this ruler. The French historian Fernand Braudel wrote a book about The Mediterranean World in the Age of this king. This ruler’s soldiers mutinied and brutally sacked Antwerp after a year-long siege because this king could not pay them, having declared bankruptcy. A man boasted that he had singed (“sinj’d”) this king’s beard in a raid on Cádiz. After a fleet of ships sent by this ruler was defeated at the Battle of Gravelines, Elizabeth I gave a famous address to troops at Tilbury. For 10 points, name this king of Spain who sent the failed Spanish Armada.
ANSWER: Philip II of Spain [prompt on Philip] &lt;European History&gt;

201.
ID: 159482  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Philosophy | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet L (Delaware, UCSD A, and Amherst A) | Number: 16
TOSSUP: One text dubs this thinker the “arch-Philistine” while criticizing him for establishing as dogma the “prejudice” that the labor-fund is a fixed magnitude. This thinker argued that the dictates of what he termed the “principle of antipathy and sympathy” could unintentionally merge with a theory he supported, unlike the “principle of asceticism.” At the beginning of his best-known work, this philosopher wrote that “every effort we can make to throw off our subjection, will serve but to demonstrate and confirm” mankind’s governance by the “two sovereign masters” of pain and pleasure. This author of An Introduction to the Principles of Morals and Legislation worked throughout his career on refining his defense of a system that would provide “the greatest happiness of the greatest number.” For 10 points, name this English philosopher who popularized the theory of utilitarianism.
ANSWER: Jeremy Bentham (The text in the first clue is Marx’s Capital.) &lt;Philosophy&gt;

202.
ID: 159452  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet K (Northwestern A, Oregon, Maryland A, and Auburn A) | Number: 7
TOSSUP: In an essay that centers on a narrator’s descriptions of James Steerforth’s arm, Martha Nussbaum analyzed this concept in relation to the “moral point of view.” Irving Singer wrote a three-volume work titled for “the nature of” this concept. This concept is likened to a man who “becomes winged” and “looks upward like a bird” when experiencing the fourth form of divine madness described by Socrates in the Phaedrus. In a different work, one speaker describes being taught about how a person can ascend from a “vulgar” form of this concept to a “divine” one via its namesake “ladder” by Diotima. In that work, one speaker satirically claims that this concept is a result of Zeus’s decision to chop in half a former race of humans with two faces and eight limbs. Plato’s Symposium discusses, for 10 points, what concept divided by Greek philosophers into forms such as philia, agape (“ah-GAH-pay”), and eros?
ANSWER: love [accept the ladder of love, divine love, or vulgar love; accept eros until read] &lt;Philosophy&gt;

203.
ID: 159495  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet M (Columbia A, Wesleyan, and Chicago A) | Number: 8
TOSSUP: This author wrote a short story that is only six paragraphs long, and which begins with the sentence: “I am losing my interest in human beings; in the significance of their lives and their actions.” One of this author’s protagonists gets into an argument with her father, a former colonel in the Confederate army, over her unwillingness to attend her sister’s wedding. In a story by this author of “The Night Came Slowly,” the protagonist mutters the words “free, free, free!” after hearing that her husband has died in a railroad accident, but then dies of a heart attack when that husband returns alive. This author of “The Story of an Hour” wrote a novella whose protagonist considers having an affair with Robert Lebrun while vacationing on Grand Isle in Louisiana. For 10 points, Edna Pontellier’s identity as a woman rather than just as a wife or mother is kindled in what author’s novella The Awakening?
ANSWER: Kate Chopin [or Katherine O’Flaherty] &lt;American Literature&gt;

204.
ID: 159444  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet J (Texas A, Oxford B, UIUC C, and Maryland B) | Number: 20
TOSSUP: Lennard Davis coined a portmanteau that pairs this concept with postmodernism to argue for a mode of thinking organized around “dependency and interdependence.” In Frontiers of Justice, Martha Nussbaum argues that John Rawls’s contractarianism is unable to fully account for this concept. A book by Rosemarie Garland-Thomson contrasts this concept with that of the “normate.” Advocates of “people-first language” argue that it works to prevent this concept from defining individuals. In the United States, the IDEA (“I-D-E-A”) requires people described by this term to be educated in the “least restrictive environment,” a practice also known as “mainstreaming.” A 1990 law requires employers to provide “reasonable accommodations” for Americans described by this term. For 10 points, name this term that refers to the restrictions experienced by people with conditions such as paraplegia and blindness.
ANSWER: disability [or disabled; accept dismodernism and more specific answers that mention disability, such as mental or physical disability; prompt on descriptive terms such as impairment and handicapped, and specific examples such as blindness] &lt;Social Science&gt;

205.
ID: 159494  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet M (Columbia A, Wesleyan, and Chicago A) | Number: 7
TOSSUP: An essay by Philip Converse attributes the decline of this concept to a lack of necessary “coherence” achieved by members of “mass publics.” An essay by Clifford Geertz (“gurts”) argues that the social sciences have failed to develop a “non-evaluative” approach to this concept. Intellectual agreements about the welfare state, decentralized power, and political pluralism represented the “end” of this concept, according to a book by Daniel Bell. One work draws a distinction between the skepticism associated with the “particular” form of this concept and the “structure of the mind” associated with its “total” form. That work, which analyzes this concept’s role in structuring ideas about utopia, is by Karl Mannheim. Bruno Bauer and Max Stirner were critiqued by Marx and Engels in a work titled for the “German” form of, for 10 points, what systems of beliefs and values held by people?
ANSWER: ideology [accept “Ideology as a Cultural System,” The End of Ideology, particular ideologies, total ideologies, Ideology and Utopia, and The German Ideology] &lt;Social Science&gt;

206.
ID: 159493  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet M (Columbia A, Wesleyan, and Chicago A) | Number: 6
TOSSUP: The book Eye of Dawn by Erika Ostrovsky was written about a possible double-agent from this country who was also discussed in the book Queer People by Basil Thomson. A ruler of this country quipped to Wilhelm II that waterworks in this country went up to ten feet high after Wilhelm bragged that his guards were seven feet tall. Operations Chowhound and Manna provided relief to this country’s citizens during its “Hunger Winter” of 1944 to 1945. The film A Bridge Too Far is about a failed airborne operation that tried to seize a bridge in this country’s city of Arnhem. This country’s queen Wilhelmina reigned through both World Wars. Anne Frank hid in a “Secret Annex” in the capital city of, for 10 points, what country whose city of Rotterdam was bombed during World War II?
ANSWER: Netherlands [or Nederland; or Holland] &lt;European History&gt;

207.
ID: 159522  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Religion | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet N (MIT, UIUC A, and Virginia Tech) | Number: 14
TOSSUP: E. Burke Rochford, a leading scholar of this movement, wrote an article for Social Problems discussing their recruitment practices. A member of this movement whose birth name was Keith Ham was accused of conspiring to murder two dissenters, but was acquitted thanks to a team led by Alan Dershowitz. The founder of this movement also founded a community near Wheeling, West Virginia, that is home to the Palace of Gold. Members of this movement often distribute a unique abridged version of a sacred text that adds the phrase “as it is” to the title. This movement is primarily known for its charitable Food for Life program and public street preaching. Founded by Swami Prabhupada, for 10 points, name this Hindu religious movement, named for a mantra to the eighth Avatar of Vishnu its adherents often chant.
ANSWER: Hare Krishna movement [or the International Society for Krishna Consciousness or ISKCon] &lt;Religion&gt;

208.
ID: 159500  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet M (Columbia A, Wesleyan, and Chicago A) | Number: 13
TOSSUP: One player of this instrument who wrote the songs “Jade Visions” and “Gloria’s Step” was replaced by Chuck Israels when he died in a car accident shortly after recording Sunday at the Village Vanguard. A piece by another player of this instrument was posthumously premiered under the baton of Gunther Schuller in 1989 and is 4,235 measures long. That piece, Epitaph, was composed by a player of this instrument who opened his album The Clown with his composition “Haitian Fight Song.” This instrument was played by Scott LaFaro and a musician who led a group called the “Jazz Workshop.” That player of this instrument paid tribute to Lester Young with the song “Goodbye Porkpie Hat” and recorded the albums Pithecanthropus Erectus and [his name] Ah Um. For 10 points, Charles Mingus played the upright form of what low-pitched string instrument?
ANSWER: double bass [or string bass; or upright bass] &lt;Other Arts&gt;

209.
ID: 159507  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Philosophy | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet M (Columbia A, Wesleyan, and Chicago A) | Number: 20
TOSSUP: One book claims that humans use a form of “intuition” named for these entities to constitute “states of affairs” from “situations of affairs.” Heidegger’s Being and Time argues that these entities represent determinations regarding “beings unlike Dasein (“DAH-zyne”)” and contrasts them with “existentials.” Edmund Husserl distinguished between two types of these entities: ontological ones and ones “of meaning.” Preferring the term “predicaments” for these entities, Charles Sanders Peirce (“purse”) outlined three universal ones in a paper titled for a “New List” of them. Gilbert Ryle used an example of a visitor to Oxford viewing its buildings and asking “But where is the university?” to illustrate a type of “mistake” named for one of these entities. “Substance” and “quantity” are among a list of ten of, for 10 points, what entities proposed in a namesake work by Aristotle that attempts to inventory the structure of reality?
ANSWER: categories [or category; accept categorical intuition, categories of meaning, ontological categories, kategoriai, category mistake, category error, “On a New List of Categories,” primary categories, and secondary categories] (The first clue refers to Husserl’s Logical Investigations.) &lt;Philosophy&gt;

210.
ID: 159506  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet M (Columbia A, Wesleyan, and Chicago A) | Number: 19
TOSSUP: Thaddeus Lowe observed this battle from above aboard his homemade balloon Enterprise. Wilmer McLean’s house was attacked with artillery fire after it was commandeered as one side’s headquarters during this battle. The victorious side in this battle was greatly aided by documents detailing enemy troop movements obtained by the spy Rose O’Neal Greenhow. The winning side in this battle lost its general Barnard Bee, who inspired Thomas Jackson’s famous nickname by pointing to him during this battle and yelling “There stands Jackson like a stone wall!” This battle was viewed by thousands of civilian spectators packing picnic baskets, who were nearly stampeded to death after a disorganized rout of troops commanded by Irvin McDowell during it. For 10 points, name this early Confederate victory in Northern Virginia, the first major engagement of the Civil War.
ANSWER: First Battle of Bull Run [or First Battle of Manassas; prompt on Battle of Bull Run or Battle of Manassas] &lt;American History&gt;

211.
ID: 159514  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet N (MIT, UIUC A, and Virginia Tech) | Number: 6
TOSSUP: The Samuelson condition locates the point at which the marginal cost of providing things described by this adjective equals the individual’s marginal rate of substitution. Richard Musgrave developed his “three-branch model” in a book titled for this type of finance. As part of his work in a field of economic theory named for this adjective, Gordon Tullock analyzed how special interests secure profits through a process of “rent-seeking” and co-authored a book that outlined many of its key principles, The Calculus of Consent. The economist James Buchanan was best-known for his work in that field, whose name pairs this adjective with “choice.” This adjective describes a type of good that is both non-excludable and non-rivalrous, an example of which is clean air. For 10 points, name this term that denotes parts of the economy controlled by the government, unlike the private sector.
ANSWER: public [accept public goods, public finance, A Theory of Public Finance, public choice theory, and the public sector] &lt;Social Science&gt;

212.
ID: 159513  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Philosophy | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet N (MIT, UIUC A, and Virginia Tech) | Number: 5
TOSSUP: A work by this thinker argues for removing the Freudian notion of “wish-fulfillment” from the domain of individual biography to understand how all artworks are “vital episodes in a single vast unfinished plot.” This thinker, who opened that book with the command to “Always historicize!”, argued in a different work that the “curiously unmarked” entrances to the Bonaventure Hotel in Los Angeles fail to fulfill the “aesthetic populism” of a certain movement’s rhetoric. This author of The Political Unconscious described how the neutral mode of pastiche (“pass-TEESH”) has replaced the function of parody in criticizing an aesthetic and philosophical movement as the expression of American dominance in global capitalism. For 10 points, name this Marxist author of Postmodernism: The Cultural Logic of Late Capitalism.
ANSWER: Fredric Jameson &lt;Philosophy&gt;

213.
ID: 159520  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet N (MIT, UIUC A, and Virginia Tech) | Number: 12
TOSSUP: In some species, this compound contains pentaglycine bridges. This compound contains diaminopimelic acid, which covalently links to Braun’s lipoprotein. Teichoic (“tay-KO-ick”) acids are embedded within this compound and inhibit the action of autolysins on it. Changing one amino acid in this compound to lactate renders organisms resistant to vancomycin. DD-transpeptidases form crosslinks within this compound, whose subunits are transported by bactoprenol. This compound contains D-amino acids embedded within a polymer of N-acetylglucosamine and N-acetylmuramic acid. This compound takes up the crystal violet dye used in Gram staining. The assembly of this compound is inhibited by beta-lactam antibiotics like penicillin. For 10 points, name this polymer that forms the bacterial cell wall.
ANSWER: peptidoglycan &lt;Biology&gt;

214.
ID: 159519  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature World
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet N (MIT, UIUC A, and Virginia Tech) | Number: 11
TOSSUP: In a novel by this author, a military historian who can write simultaneously backwards and forwards with both hands is one of the three friends who meet at the Toxique restaurant, where they see the supposedly long-dead Zenia. One of this writer’s protagonists recalls reading about “pig balls,” which are given to pigs who are being fattened for slaughter. One of this author’s characters used to be a televangelist on the Growing Souls Gospel Hour, and arranges for the protagonist to secretly have a relationship with Nick. In 2018 this author announced that her most popular novel would receive a sequel called The Testaments. In that novel, in which Unwomen are exiled to the colonies to clean up toxic waste, Offred (“OFF-red”) is forced to bear children for the Commander. For 10 points, name this author of The Robber Bride and The Handmaid’s Tale.
ANSWER: Margaret Atwood [or Margaret Eleanor Atwood] &lt;World Literature&gt;

215.
ID: 159435  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet J (Texas A, Oxford B, UIUC C, and Maryland B) | Number: 11
TOSSUP: Since there were few large rocks around the site of this engagement, the besiegers uprooted palm trees to use as ammunition for their trebuchets. David VI of Georgia convinced the victors of this battle to spare all Nestorian Christian prisoners by sheltering them in a church. According to Marco Polo, the defeated ruler in this siege was executed by being starved to death in his own treasure room, though more conventional accounts state that he was executed by being rolled up into a rug and trampled to death. The destruction of the House of Wisdom after this siege led to the Tigris River running black with ink from the sheer number of destroyed books. For 10 points, name this 1258 siege, carried out by Mongols under Hulagu Khan, that ruined the capital of the Abbasid Caliphate.
ANSWER: siege of Baghdad [accept sack of Baghdad] &lt;World History&gt;

216.
ID: 159525  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature European
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet N (MIT, UIUC A, and Virginia Tech) | Number: 17
TOSSUP: This playwright founded the small Intima Theater, where many of his plays were first performed. At the end of a play by this author, a young woman who complains about the drudgery of keeping the “filth of life” away disappears behind a screen as white light fills the room and a harp plays. One of this playwright’s characters is a “Sunday child,” which supposedly allows him to see people who others can’t, such as the apparition of a milkmaid. A character created by this man breaks off her engagement when her fiancé refuses to jump over a riding whip. In the same play by this author, a character is convinced to waltz with the title character and cheats on the cook Christine. In that play by this author, the valet Jean (“zhahn”) cuts off the head of the title character’s canary with a razor blade. For 10 points, name this Swedish playwright of The Ghost Sonata and Miss Julie.
ANSWER: August Strindberg [or Johan August Strindberg] &lt;European Literature&gt;

217.
ID: 159529  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet N (MIT, UIUC A, and Virginia Tech) | Number: 21
TOSSUP: Large tree trunks were buried around this city’s walls to slow the work of sappers during one siege. Nicholas, Count of Salm successfully defended this city but was killed during that siege by a falling rock. The Cossack Jerzy Kulczycki broke out of this city to request reinforcements and later opened its first coffeehouse after capturing coffee beans left by besieging forces. According to legend, culinary developments resulting from a siege of this city included the invention of the croissant. The largest cavalry charge in history was in defense of this city and was made up of 20,000 winged hussars. Kara Mustafa was executed after he failed to capture this city, which was successfully defended by Jan III Sobieski, in 1683. The Ottomans twice failed to capture, for 10 points, what capital of Austria?
ANSWER: Vienna &lt;European History&gt; Bonuses

218.
ID: 159491  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Other
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet M (Columbia A, Wesleyan, and Chicago A) | Number: 4
TOSSUP: Chemists who specialize in this substance use abbreviations for compounds like alite (“A-lite”) and belite (“B-lite”). An intermediate in the production of this substance called clinker is produced after calcination happens in a rotary kiln. Alkali-silicon reactions weaken this material by causing swelling, a problem termed this material’s “cancer.” Because this material gives off heat as it cures, it can be cooled with liquid nitrogen, or water can be pumped through it to avoid contraction-induced stress. Production of this substance accounts for around 5 percent of the world’s carbon dioxide emissions. This material includes a binder made from clay and limestone. This material’s low tensile strength is augmented by steel rebar in a common reinforced variety. For 10 points, name this material composed of an aggregate bound by cement used for large construction projects like bridges and dams.
ANSWER: concrete [accept Portland cement until “alkali-silicon,” but prompt thereafter by asking “what material is the cement primarily used for?”] &lt;Other Science (Engineering)&gt;

219.
ID: 159426  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet J (Texas A, Oxford B, UIUC C, and Maryland B) | Number: 2
TOSSUP: An artist from this modern-day country depicted one of its rulers giving a book to a religious figure while being watched by King James I of England in one of the many allegorical portraits that became popular during his reign. William Fraser commissioned artists from this modern-day country to produce watercolor portraits for an album that bears his name, one of the best surviving examples of the hybrid “company style” of painting that developed in this modern-day country. A particular style of painting in this modern-day country developed after an emperor returning from his exile in Tabriz brought with him two Persian miniaturists. Many rulers in this modern-day country were depicted sitting atop the Peacock Throne. For 10 points, name this modern-day country in which repeated contact with British art influenced the style of court paintings under Jahangir and Shah Jahan, rulers of the Mughal Empire.
ANSWER: India [or Republic of India; or Bhārat Gaṇarājya; also accept Pakistan because all of these clues refer to the Mughal Empire] &lt;Painting&gt;

220.
ID: 159279  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet C (MSU A, NYU B, UCLA A, and Virginia A) | Number: 2
TOSSUP: The Lagrangian for this theory includes the contraction of a field strength tensor written with two Greek indices and one Latin index. The PETRA (“petra”) accelerator measured the Ellis–Karliner angle during three-jet events in order to find evidence for key particles in this theory and determine their spin to be one. The low-energy behavior of this theory cannot be treated perturbatively, but can instead be modeled on a discretized lattice. The gauge (“gayj”) group of this theory is SU(3) (“S-U-three”) and is generated by the Gell-Mann (“ghell-MAN”) matrices, each of which corresponds to one of its eight gauge bosons. This theory predicts weakening interactions at long range called asymptotic freedom. This theory’s gauge bosons are gluons. For 10 points, name this theory of the strong nuclear force named for the color charge possessed by quarks.
ANSWER: quantum chromodynamics [or QCD; prompt on quantum field theory or QFT; prompt on the Standard Model by asking “what specific part of the Standard Model?”; do not accept or prompt on “QED”] &lt;Physics&gt;

221.
ID: 159430  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet J (Texas A, Oxford B, UIUC C, and Maryland B) | Number: 6
TOSSUP: An instrumental section in this work is in 12/8 time and opens with a rising violin melody from C to A while the basses play a drone on C. An aria for bass in this work features long melismatic phrases on the word “changed” and contains a difficult trumpet solo that is often played today on piccolo trumpet. In one aria in this piece, a soprano declares that even though “worms destroy this body,” “I shall see God.” This work includes an interlude that emulates Italian bagpipers called the “Pifa,” and it also features the arias “The trumpet shall sound” and “I know that my Redeemer liveth.” A chorus sings “King of Kings and Lord of Lords” in a section of this work during which the audience traditionally stands. For 10 points, name this work that contains the “Hallelujah” chorus, an oratorio by George Frideric Handel.
ANSWER: Messiah &lt;Music&gt;

222.
ID: 159436  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Other
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet J (Texas A, Oxford B, UIUC C, and Maryland B) | Number: 12
TOSSUP: An artist from this city depicted a boy on a tricycle literally framed by a wooden frame, in front of which other children examine shards of glass, in a photograph subtitled “Broken Mirror.” Helen Levitt photographed many young children in this city. A photograph depicting long shadows stretching out from silhouetted men who walk beneath huge black windows was taken in this city by Paul Strand. In another picture taken in this city, an overall strap dangles off of the shoulder of Colin Wood, who makes a manic expression while holding a toy hand grenade. Alfred Stieglitz’s 291 Gallery was in this city, which is also where Alfred Eisenstaedt photographed a man in a sailor hat kissing a woman in celebration of V-J Day. For 10 points, name this city whose many photogenic locations include Central Park and Times Square.
ANSWER: New York City [or NYC] &lt;Other Arts&gt;

223.
ID: 159303  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature Classical
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet D (NYU A, Rutgers A, Michigan A, and Oxford A) | Number: 5
TOSSUP: Marilyn Hacker wrote a poem about how this author’s “guts clutched up like this.” This author wrote that “a human being without old age is not a possibility” in a poem translated under the title “The Beat Goes On.” In a poem by this author, the speaker says “it is as if my tongue has broken and immediately a subtle fire has run over my skin” while watching a man sitting opposite a woman and listening to her laughing. A. E. Housman wrote several adaptations of the so-called “midnight poem,” which was long attributed to this author. Commands like “take the bitter care from my mind” and “in all my battles fight as my comrade” end a poem by this author addressed to a “deathless” and “iridescent-throned” goddess. “Ode to Aphrodite” is one of the few substantially complete poems by, for 10 points, what ancient Greek poet who lived on the island of Lesbos?
ANSWER: Sappho &lt;Other Literature&gt;

224.
ID: 159340  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet E (Penn State B, Berkeley A, and Harvard A) | Number: 21
TOSSUP: Ricochet firing, or shooting artillery at a low angle so that the shells bounce, was first used in this war at the Siege of Philippsburg. The “Camaret Bay” letter detailing British plans to land at Brest during this war cast doubts on one commander’s loyalty following a disastrous defeat. An invasion of Britain was foiled at the naval battles of Barfleur and La Hogue during this war. The Dutch military engineer Menno van Coehoorn (“fon KOO-horn”) defended the Belgian town of Namur (“nah-MOOR”) twice during this war, which was also the last major war that the French military engineer Vauban (“voh-BAWN”) took part in. King William’s War was the North American theater of this conflict, which was ended by the Treaty of Ryswick (“RICE-wick”). The namesake alliance opposed Louis XIV’s France in, for 10 points, what 1688 to 1697 European war?
ANSWER: Nine Years’ War [or the War of the League of Augsburg; or the War of the Grand Alliance; anti-prompt on King William’s War until read] &lt;European History&gt; Bonuses

225.
ID: 159411  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet I (OSU A, Rice A, and Yale B) | Number: 8
TOSSUP: The action of TAA1 on tryptophan begins the biosynthesis pathway of these compounds, which also contains a flavin monooxygenase-like enzyme coded by the YUCCA gene that catalyzes the hydroxylation of tryptamine. ABCB proteins or PGP proteins act as evenly-distributed efflux carriers for the anionic form of these compounds. These compounds act by de-repressing ARFs via activation of the receptor TIR1. PIN proteins acting as efflux carriers of these molecules maintain asymmetrical plasma membrane localization, in a process called polar transport. They play a role in the acid growth hypothesis via their activation of proton pumps. These compounds are responsible for the suppression of ethylene production, which inhibits lateral growth. For 10 points, name these plant hormones that play important roles in apical dominance, phototropism, and gravitropism.
ANSWER: auxins &lt;Biology&gt;

226.
ID: 159410  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Trash | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet I (OSU A, Rice A, and Yale B) | Number: 7
TOSSUP: A character on this show encounters a naval officer who was imprisoned for killing a special fish while rescuing his family from a sentient fog 170 years ago. An eccentric billionaire on this show constantly orders other characters, including his assistant who he eventually marries, to “do the thing.” The protagonist of this show is poisoned with mercury by a villain who achieves the power of flight after watching the death of his lover P’li. The protagonist of this show pacifies Unalaq (“OO-nuh-lock”) and merges with Raava during the Harmonic Convergence. Its villains include the anarchist Zaheer of the Red Lotus and Kuvira, leader of the Earth Empire, and it ends with the protagonist beginning a romantic relationship with the non-bender Asami Sato. For 10 points, name this Nickelodeon cartoon whose title character is Aang’s successor as Avatar.
ANSWER: The Legend of Korra [prompt on Korra; accept Avatar: The Legend of Korra; do not accept or prompt on “Avatar” or “The Last Airbender”] &lt;Trash&gt;

227.
ID: 159396  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet H (Cambridge B, Berkeley B, Columbia B, and Cornell) | Number: 14
TOSSUP: The historian Fritz Stern spent much of his childhood in this historical region’s largest city. A short-lived province named for this region included the northeastern part of Upper Lusatia under the provisions of the Congress of Vienna. The Auschwitz concentration camp was located in the upper part of this historical region, which was split between Germany and Poland following an inconclusive 1921 plebiscite. This region’s capital was the city of Breslau, now known as Wrocław (“VROT-swaff”). Maria Theresa was issued an ultimatum to surrender this region directly south of Brandenburg in exchange for recognition of her right to rule given by the Pragmatic Sanction. For 10 points, name this historical region whose 1740 invasion by Frederick the Great started the War of the Austrian Succession.
ANSWER: Silesia [accept Śląsk or Slezsko or Schlesien] &lt;European History&gt;

228.
ID: 159397  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet H (Cambridge B, Berkeley B, Columbia B, and Cornell) | Number: 15
TOSSUP: A piece inspired by this historical event features a youth choir chanting stock phrases like “I am quite well,” which were projected in the Royal Albert Hall during its premiere. The fourth movement of a composer’s Third Symphony inspired by this general event opens with a soft timpani roll accompanying a solo soprano singing a wordless, pentatonic melody. This event inspired Anna Meredith’s Five Telegrams, Vaughan Williams’s A Pastoral Symphony, and a piano suite whose lively last movement opens with many repeated sixteenth-note E’s. That E minor Toccata closes a Baroque-inspired suite whose six movements are dedicated to friends who participated in this event. This event inspired Ravel’s Le Tombeau de Couperin and a requiem that includes settings of poems by Wilfred Owen. For 10 points, name this event that inspired Benjamin Britten’s War Requiem.
ANSWER: World War I [or WWI; or First World War; or the Great War; prompt on war; prompt on things like death by asking “during which historical event?”] &lt;Music&gt;

229.
ID: 159386  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Mythology | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet H (Cambridge B, Berkeley B, Columbia B, and Cornell) | Number: 4
TOSSUP: According to the historian Timaeus, the Phaeacians encountered in the Odyssey were direct descendants of this deity. The few surviving images of this deity from antiquity depict him alongside Aion, who takes the form of a Zodiac wheel. Similarities between stories about this god and Anu provide evidence for the influence of Mesopotamian myths on the work of Hesiod (“HEE-see-id”). Three children of this Greek equivalent of Caelus aided the Olympians in a conflict by throwing giant boulders using their one hundred hands. This figure’s daughter duped her husband by giving him a cloth-wrapped stone after that husband castrated this god with a sickle. For 10 points, name this primordial sky god and husband of Gaia, the progenitor of the Titans.
ANSWER: Uranus [accept Caelus until read] &lt;Mythology&gt;

230.
ID: 159394  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Other
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet H (Cambridge B, Berkeley B, Columbia B, and Cornell) | Number: 12
TOSSUP: A “weld” named for this compound occurs when mineral strata of this compound become too thin to separate the rock layers above and below. “Teardrops” and “sheets” composed of this compound have developed from less mature “stocks” that may form flat “canopies” of this compound. This compound can rise through clastic rocks in a form of diapirism (“DIE-ah-peer-ism”) due to buoyant forces, creating traps for subsurface oil. Endorheic (“EN-do-REE-ick”) basins contain mineral formations of this compound. Large mineral structures of this compound called its namesake domes are common on the Gulf Coast. This compound makes up an evaporite mineral called halite, and its evaporation creates white “flats.” A high concentration of this compound dissolved in water is called brine. For 10 points, name this ionic compound whose formula is NaCl (“N-A-C-L”).
ANSWER: salt [or sodium chloride; accept NaCl until read; accept halite until read] &lt;Other Science (Earth Science)&gt;

231.
ID: 159370  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet G (Cambridge A, Carleton College A, and Penn A) | Number: 9
TOSSUP: Superfluids experience a type of this process due to waves of phonon density in which the normal and superfluid components oscillate out of phase, called second sound. A relation between different forms of this process includes the square root of the Reynolds number times the Prandtl number to the one-third power. That relation compares two types of this process in cylindrical systems and is the Churchill–Bernstein equation. The Biot (“bee-OH”) number compares internal and external forms of this process across a surface, and the Nusselt number is the ratio of two different forms of this process. The rate of this process, which can happen when bodies are in contact or through bulk motion of a fluid, is proportional to delta-T according to Newton’s Law of Cooling. For 10 points, name this transfer of energy exemplified by convection, conduction, and radiation.
ANSWER: heat transfer [accept thermal energy transfer or heat exchange; accept second sound until read; prompt on sound or heat or heating or cooling by asking “what physical quantity is being transferred?”; anti-prompt on convection or conduction by asking “can you be less specific?”] &lt;Physics&gt;

232.
ID: 159377  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Mythology | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet G (Cambridge A, Carleton College A, and Penn A) | Number: 16
TOSSUP: In one myth, this animal was created when Xuanwu (“shwen-woo”) washed his stomach in a river to dissolve his sins. In Fujian Province, many tombs are shaped to look like this animal, possibly because it is thought to find good places for burial. Along with a snake, a black one of these animals represents the North in the Four Symbols. A creature who is half-dragon and half this animal, Bixi (“bee-shee”), is traditionally depicted in plinths for steles (“stee-leez”) that are rubbed for good luck. One of these animals is said to carry the three islands of the Eight Immortals. After a fight between Gonggong and Zhuanxu (“j’wen-shoo”) causes a flood, Nüwa cuts off the legs of that animal, Ao (“ow”), to repair the sky. Along with oxen bones, parts of these animals were heated and observed for cracks. For 10 points, name these reptiles whose shells were used in Chinese divination.
ANSWER: turtles [or tortoises] &lt;Mythology&gt;

233.
ID: 159371  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet G (Cambridge A, Carleton College A, and Penn A) | Number: 10
TOSSUP: Composer and type of piece required. One of these pieces opens with a held B-flat major chord under a gentle rising and falling theme that starts with the notes E-natural, F. The F-sharp major largo second movement of one of these pieces is marked Cantabile e mesto (“kahn-TAH-bee-lay ay MESS-toh”); that piece is sometimes nicknamed “Graveyard.” The third movement of one of these pieces is known as the “Witches’ Minuet,” and its first movement opens with two measures of falling fifths. The second movement of one of these pieces is a theme-and-variations on the composer’s own hymn “God Save Emperor Francis,” which later became the Deutschlandlied (“DOYTCH-lahnd-leed”). A set of six of these pieces, which includes ones nicknamed “Sunrise,” “Fifths,” and “Emperor,” was dedicated to Count Erdödy (“AIR-der-dee”) and labeled Opus 76. For 10 points, name these pieces of chamber music by the Austrian “Father” of their form.
ANSWER: string quartets by Franz Joseph Haydn [prompt on partial answer; accept answers that also include Opus 76 or Erdödy until read, as all the pieces in the tossup are from Op. 76; prompt on SQ] &lt;Music&gt;

234.
ID: 159369  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet G (Cambridge A, Carleton College A, and Penn A) | Number: 8
TOSSUP: Five labor leaders were shot to death in 1977 near a railway station in this country by a far-right terrorist organization called the Apostolic Anti-Communist Alliance, or Triple A. This country’s “eight fundamental laws of the realm” were replaced by a new constitution in 1978. This country’s prime minister was assassinated by a car bomb planted by members of a separatist organization in Operation Ogre. In 1981, military leaders in this country attempted a coup by holding its legislature hostage, but the coup attempt, called 23-F, was foiled when this country’s king appeared on live television opposing the coup. This country became a constitutional monarchy after the accession of Juan Carlos I. For 10 points, name this country where the dictatorship of the Falange (“fuh-LANJ”) party ended after the 1975 death of Francisco Franco.
ANSWER: Spain [or Kingdom of Spain; or Reino de España] &lt;European History&gt;

235.
ID: 159355  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet F (Yale A, Gettysburg A, and Iowa) | Number: 15
TOSSUP: In a formalism named for this process, the Peierls (“PIE-erls”) substitution couples an external vector potential to the hopping parameters of the Hamiltonian. Features named for this process correspond to poles of the Green’s function in the Bethe–Salpeter (“BAY-tuh sall-PEE-ter”) formalism and differ from resonances in that they have infinite lifetime. States described by this term can be normalized and are contrasted with the continuous spectrum of scattering states. Systems such as neutral atoms where interacting particles have lower energy than their total separated energy are in this kind of “state.” Another quantity described by this term equals the mass defect times c-squared. Nickel-62 and iron-56 have some of the largest values of the “nuclear” type of, for 10 points, what energy of formation?
ANSWER: binding [or bound; accept tight-binding model; accept bound state; accept nuclear binding energy] &lt;Physics&gt;

236.
ID: 159356  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet F (Yale A, Gettysburg A, and Iowa) | Number: 16
TOSSUP: This state’s lands east of the Oglio (“OHL-yo”) River were ceded to one party to the Preliminaries of Leoben (“lay-OH-bin”), though that boundary was later moved east to the Adige (“AH-dee-jay”). Supporters of this state revolted against French occupiers in an uprising named on analogy with the Sicilian Vespers, which was suppressed two weeks before the abdication of the final traditional leader of this state, Ludovico Manin (“mah-NEEN”). This city-state’s hinterland, the “Domini di Terraferma,” was partitioned between Austria and the Cisalpine Republic by the provisions of the 1797 Treaty of Campo Formio. Napoleon removed restrictions on Jews living in this city, who had been confined to its foundry district, which was the origin of the term “ghetto.” For 10 points, name this “most serene republic” ruled by doges (“DOH-jizz”) that dominated the Adriatic Sea from its canal-rich capital.
ANSWER: Venice [or Republic of Venice; or Venetian Republic] &lt;European History&gt;

237.
ID: 159350  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Mythology | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet F (Yale A, Gettysburg A, and Iowa) | Number: 10
TOSSUP: In Mapuche mythology, one of these events resulted in the creation of the sumpall (“soom-paul”) and was caused by a battle between two giant snakes. The “magical soil” xirang (“shee-rong”) was used in a failed attempt to stop one of these events, after which Gun (“gwun”) was banished to Feather Mountain. The “Four Mountains” served as advisors to emperors Gao and Shun during one of these events, another of which was caused by Odin’s killing of Ymir. One of these events is eventually stopped by Gun’s son, Yu the Great, after which he founded the Xia (“sh’YAH”) Dynasty. In Mesopotamian mythology, Enki helps Utnapishtim survive one of these events by instructing him to build The Preserver of Life. Hapi personifies a yearly example of one of these events, which is caused by Isis’s tears. For 10 points, name these mythological disasters frequently caused by overrunning rivers.
ANSWER: floods [accept reasonable equivalents] &lt;Mythology&gt;

238.
ID: 159346  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet F (Yale A, Gettysburg A, and Iowa) | Number: 6
TOSSUP: One of these molecules, which was discovered in the extrachromosomal genome of Didymium iridis, creates an internal processing site; that one of these molecules is GIR1. The P4-P6 domain of another of these molecules contains a tetraloop-receptor motif. One of these molecules has conserved G5, G8, and G12 residues. Sidney Altman and Thomas Cech (“check”) won a 1989 Nobel Prize for their discovery of these molecules, which include one from the hepatitis delta virus and another that has a hammerhead shape. The peptidyl transferase activity of the 23S ribosome and the self-splicing group I intron are examples of these molecules. The fact that some of these molecules can catalyze their own cleavage and replication lends support to the RNA world hypothesis. For 10 points, name these RNA molecules that can catalyze reactions.
ANSWER: ribozyme [prompt on RNA] &lt;Biology&gt;

239.
ID: 159380  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet G (Cambridge A, Carleton College A, and Penn A) | Number: 19
TOSSUP: It’s not Canada, but the erection of poorly-constructed timber frame houses in this country in the late ’90s and early 2000s led to the “leaky homes crisis.” This country experienced a 1984 constitutional crisis when its outgoing prime minister refused his successor’s instructions to devalue its currency. After the 1979 Iranian oil shock, this country launched petrochemical projects under the “Think Big” strategy. This country’s prime minister David Lange (“LONG-ee”) declared it a nuclear-free zone. Free-market policies in the 1990s in this country were pejoratively called Ruthanasia, which succeeded liberal economic policies of the 1980s nicknamed Rogernomics. This country’s rugby team is called the All Blacks. For 10 points, name this nation that moved its capital from Auckland to Wellington in 1865.
ANSWER: New Zealand [or Aotearoa] &lt;World History&gt;

240.
ID: 159334  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet E (Penn State B, Berkeley A, and Harvard A) | Number: 15
TOSSUP: A shell balance can be used to measure velocity while this condition holds. Simple solutions to Prandtl’s boundary layer equations developed by Falkner, Skan, and Blasius require this condition. This condition gives rise to a parabolic velocity profile, allowing reaction rate to be analyzed in the cross sections of a tubular reactor where this condition holds. In addition to requiring incompressibility, the Hagen–Poiseuille (“pwah-ZUH-ee”) equations require this condition to be met. This condition is named for a set of imaginary layers, which are typically annular and move past each other independently, with the fastest layer at the center. This condition applies to fluids that have a low Reynolds number. For 10 points, name this type of smooth flow, which is contrasted with turbulent flow.
ANSWER: laminar flow [accept laminar regime, or laminar boundary layer flow, or laminar flow reactor; prompt on continuous flow, or anything including fluid flowing through a (circular) pipe] &lt;Physics&gt;

241.
ID: 159327  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet E (Penn State B, Berkeley A, and Harvard A) | Number: 8
TOSSUP: A composer from this country wrote a piece inspired by electroencephalograms of people listening to one of his earlier works. A composer from this country wrote a string quartet in which the musicians play entire sections independently from each other, a technique he called “controlled aleatoricism.” A piece from this country scored for 48 string instruments, Polymorphia, uses its composer’s system of graphic notation in which note length is determined by the physical length of horizontal lines. That non-Bach composer from this country included a B-A-C-H motif in several tone rows in his atonal St. Luke’s Passion. A composer from this country included Silesian folk songs and a prayer written on the wall of a Gestapo jail in his Symphony of Sorrowful Songs. For 10 points, name this home country of Witold Lutosławski (“VEE-told loo-toh-SWAFF-skee”), Krzysztof Penderecki (“k’SHISH-toff pen-duh-RETS-kee”), and Henryk Górecki (“HEN-rick goo-RETS-kee”).
ANSWER: Poland [or Republic of Poland; or Rzeczpospolita Polska] &lt;Music&gt;

242.
ID: 159324  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Trash | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet E (Penn State B, Berkeley A, and Harvard A) | Number: 5
TOSSUP: This team’s career interceptions leader Thom Darden failed to prevent Ahmad Rashād from catching the Hail Mary that completed the “Miracle at the Met.” A player who spent 21 years with this team as both an offensive tackle and a placekicker is its all-time scoring leader, and was nicknamed “The Toe.” All four AAFC championship games were won by this team, which later lost consecutive AFC Championships to the Broncos: one after Jeremiah Castille stripped Earnest Byner at the goal line, and the other after John Elway led a 98-yard game-winning drive. Before the 1996 season, this team’s then-owner Art Modell suddenly moved it to Baltimore. A 2018 rookie class that includes Denzel Ward, Nick Chubb, and Baker Mayfield has reversed the fortunes of, for 10 points, what recently-awful Ohio football team?
ANSWER: Cleveland Browns [accept either underlined portion] (“The Toe” is Lou Groza.) &lt;Trash&gt;

243.
ID: 159309  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet D (NYU A, Rutgers A, Michigan A, and Oxford A) | Number: 11
TOSSUP: This phenomenon causes a relative decrease in neutron absorption cross-section with temperature, leading to a decrease in fission rate with temperature in some nuclear reactors. This phenomenon determines a limit equal to h-bar times natural linewidth over two k-sub-B, due to fluctuations in absorption and emission of photons by a two-level atom. In gas samples, this phenomenon gives rise to a Gaussian linewidth with variance proportional to “kT over mc-squared.” A spectroscopic technique that uses a pump beam to saturate a sample allows frequencies to be measured “free” from the broadening caused by this phenomenon. This effect can be visualized as wavefronts bunching in front of a moving source while stretching out behind it. For 10 points, name this effect that produces a frequency shift proportional to delta-v over c in moving reference frames.
ANSWER: Doppler shift [or Doppler effect; accept Doppler temperature, Doppler cooling limit, or thermal Doppler broadening] &lt;Physics&gt;

244.
ID: 159515  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet N (MIT, UIUC A, and Virginia Tech) | Number: 7
TOSSUP: An extreme left-wing terrorist group from this country assassinated United States diplomat Leamon Hunt in 1984. Bus 37 with its clock stopped at 10:25 a.m. memorializes a 1980 bombing of a train station in this country that killed 85 people. This is the first country in which the term “strategy of tension” was used to refer to the policy of encouraging extremist violence. Factory workers in the north of this country went on strike in a period called the Hot Autumn. A clandestine NATO stay-behind operation in this country was called Operation Gladio. Students and police clashed at a university in this country’s capital in the Battle of Valle Giulia (“vahl-lay JOO-lee-ah”). The Red Brigades kidnapped and killed this country’s prime minister Aldo Moro during its Years of Lead. For 10 points, name this country whose recent prime ministers have included Silvio Berlusconi.
ANSWER: Italy [or Italian Republic; or Italia] &lt;European History&gt;

245.
ID: 159314  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature European
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet D (NYU A, Rutgers A, Michigan A, and Oxford A) | Number: 16
TOSSUP: Karel Čapek’s (“CHAH-peck’s”) novel Hordubal is about a man who returns home after working in this country for eight years. A novel set in this country was translated by Mark Harman with the subtitle “The Missing Person,” referencing the author’s working title. The first paragraph of that novel set in this country oddly describes sunlight illuminating an arm holding a sword aloft. In this country, the protagonist is imprisoned in Brunelda’s apartment by a pair of drifters who constantly exploit him named Delamarche and Robinson. A novel set in this country ends with the protagonist getting a job at a “Nature Theater” after being fired from the Hotel Occidental. In a novel that started out as a short story called “The Stoker,” Karl Rossmann emigrates to this country. For 10 points, name this country that titles an unfinished novel by Franz Kafka.
ANSWER: United States of America [or United States of America; or USA] &lt;European Literature&gt;

246.
ID: 159357  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet F (Yale A, Gettysburg A, and Iowa) | Number: 17
TOSSUP: An artist from this country painted himself speaking to a couple as the cross-dressing “Sophie Yoteko” in one work. That artist from this country depicted his sister Mitche (“MIT-cha”) alone at a table holding an oyster in a painting that was rejected from two art shows in this country. An artist from this country metaphorically depicted two of its art critics as two skeletons biting into different ends of a pickled herring. A red banner reading “Vive la Sociale” appears atop a large painting of an artist from this country that depicts Christ’s entry into this country’s capital “in 1889.” That artist, James Ensor, was a member of the late-19th-century art group Les XX (“lay VAN”) in this country. For 10 points, name this country home to an artist who showed a train emerging from a fireplace in his painting Time Transfixed, René Magritte.
ANSWER: Belgium [or Kingdom of Belgium; or België] &lt;Painting&gt;

247.
ID: 159315  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet D (NYU A, Rutgers A, Michigan A, and Oxford A) | Number: 17
TOSSUP: In a book titled for these people’s culture, the anthropologist Sabina Magliocco (“mall-YO-ko”) used a term from Michel de Certeau (“sair-TOH”) to describe them as “textual poachers” of the work of Charles Leland (“LEE-land”) and Margaret Murray. Peter Geschiere (“guh-SHEER-uh”) notes that among the modern Maka people, the elite Grands (“grahnd”) are thought to derive power from a group of these people engaged in djambe (“JOM-bay”). A book by Silvia Federici argues that campaigns against these people were central to the creation of the proletariat during the transition to capitalism. These people are defined by their inheritance of mangu in their stomach, and their actions are sometimes detected by people who poison a chicken with benge (“BEN-gay”), according to a book by E. E. Evans-Pritchard that examines oracles and these people in Azande culture. The Malleus Maleficarum is a manual for resisting the influence of, for 10 points, what people, typically women, who were often burned at the stake in 17th-century Europe?
ANSWER: witches [accept Witching Culture or The Modernity of Witchcraft or Caliban and the Witch; accept witch doctors or Wiccans; prompt on healers, magicians, shamans, neo-Pagans, sorcerers, or women] &lt;Social Science&gt;

248.
ID: 159304  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Other
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet D (NYU A, Rutgers A, Michigan A, and Oxford A) | Number: 6
TOSSUP: This architect’s extensive work in Malta includes the country’s parliament building and a controversial redesign of the Valletta city gate. He included a multi-level system of terraces in his design for a museum at the southern entrance of the High Line park. Scenes by Canaletto depicting the spires of London inspired the steep pyramidal shape that this architect used in his design for the tallest building in the EU. This designer of the new Whitney Museum and the Shard collaborated with Noriaki Okabe on the longest airport terminal in the world, which sits on an artificial island in Osaka Bay. He also collaborated with Richard Rogers on a complex in Paris with a distinctive inside-out look. For 10 points, name this Italian architect of Kansai International Airport and the Pompidou Centre.
ANSWER: Renzo Piano &lt;Other Arts&gt;

249.
ID: 159344  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet F (Yale A, Gettysburg A, and Iowa) | Number: 4
TOSSUP: A poem named after this thing thanks the Lord for creating “Brother Fire” and “Sister Water.” The speaker of another poem is driven back “to where [this thing] is silent” by the appearance of a wolf. According to the “rule of the mountain” explained by Sordello, this thing determines when it is possible for souls to climb upward. One of the very first works of literature in Italian is a “canticle” about this thing by St. Francis of Assisi. Dante and Beatrice meet the souls of wise men in the form of revolving bright lights inside this object in the Paradiso. The description of the position of this object in the Purgatorio demonstrates medieval knowledge of the spherical shape of the Earth. For 10 points, the Divine Comedy ends by describing “the Love that moves” what celestial object “and the other stars”?
ANSWER: the Sun [or il sole; accept sunset or sunlight] &lt;European Literature&gt;

250.
ID: 159296  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet C (MSU A, NYU B, UCLA A, and Virginia A) | Number: 19
TOSSUP: While working at the California Institute of the Arts, Miriam Schapiro and Judy Chicago organized a collaborative exhibition titled for a “woman” one of these entities. In a series of paintings made in the 1940s by Louise Bourgeois, these entities replace various parts of the bodies of nude women. The critic Louis Vauxcelles (“vo-SELL”) coined the name of the cubist movement by describing the “little cubes” that appear in a work by Georges Braque depicting a number of these entities at L’Estaque (“luh-STOCK”). One of these entities sits in the upper-right hand corner of a painting in which a woman in a pink dress crawls through a field toward it; that work is Andrew Wyeth’s Christina’s World. For 10 points, name these structures, a white example of which appears in Grant Wood’s American Gothic between the heads of its residents.
ANSWER: houses [or homes; accept Femme Maison, Womanhouse, or Houses at l’Estaque; prompt on buildings or similar answers by asking “what type?”] &lt;Painting&gt;

251.
ID: 159337  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature World
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet E (Penn State B, Berkeley A, and Harvard A) | Number: 18
TOSSUP: A woman kills a corrupt mayor near this geographical feature in a novel entitled God Dies by [this feature]. In a novel named for this feature, a nail polish bottle contains the red ink that Linnet Doyle’s husband Simon uses to fake an injury. An Anthony Sattin book named after this geographical feature is about how both Florence Nightingale and Gustave Flaubert (“flow-BAIR”) participated in the same trip along this river in 1849. Felicia Hemans’s (“HEM-inz’s”) poem “Casabianca” commemorates a battle that took place near this river. The protagonist of the novel Season of Migration to the North drowns in this river, though it is left ambiguous whether the narrator does so as well. An Agatha Christie novel is titled for a death on this river. The novels Palace Walk, Palace of Desire, and Sugar Street take place near this river. For 10 points, name this river, a city on which is the setting for Naguib Mahfouz’s Cairo Trilogy.
ANSWER: Nile River &lt;Other Literature&gt;

252.
ID: 159330  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet E (Penn State B, Berkeley A, and Harvard A) | Number: 11
TOSSUP: Three World War II veterans from this country were killed outside Christianborg Castle while agitating for their unpaid war benefits. The findings of the Coussey Committee were rejected by a leader of this country who used slogans like “Self-government now!” and “Forward ever, backwards never.” Charles Arden-Clarke was the last colonial governor of this country, which was the first sub-Saharan colony to gain independence. This country’s first president, who was given the honorary title of Osagyefo (“AW-sah-jay-foh”), or “redeemer,” said “Seek ye first the political kingdom and all things shall be added unto you.” This country created Lake Volta by building the Akosombo Dam. Kwame Nkrumah (“KWAH-may in-KROO-mah”) was the first Prime Minister of, for 10 points, what African country formerly known as the Gold Coast whose capital is Accra?
ANSWER: Ghana [or Republic of Ghana] &lt;World History&gt;

253.
ID: 159323  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Computer Science
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet E (Penn State B, Berkeley A, and Harvard A) | Number: 4
TOSSUP: A 1974 paper by Leslie Lamport pioneered a method of generating this behavior by slicing an n-dimensional polytope defined by the indices of n nested loops. PRAM and work-depth models are used to analyze the efficiency of algorithms with this behavior. This behavior is enabled by “point-to-point” communication and directives like “pragma omp (“O-M-P”) for” through the Message Passing Interface library OpenMP. This behavior can be “embarrassingly” easy to implement for highly granular programs. This behavior, which is classified as SIMD or MIMD in Flynn’s taxonomy, is provided by GPUs with NVIDIA’s CUDA (“KOO-duh”) platform. This behavior, described by the fork-join model, can be implemented using pipelining. For 10 points, name this programming approach, contrasted with serial programming, in which multiple processes run simultaneously.
ANSWER: parallel computing [or parallel programming or parallel execution or other synonyms; or parallelism or parallelization; accept multithreading or multiprocessing; accept distributed computing] &lt;Other Science (Computer Science)&gt;

254.
ID: 159293  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Mythology | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet C (MSU A, NYU B, UCLA A, and Virginia A) | Number: 16
TOSSUP: One of this man’s grandsons narrates a passage about him in the Iliad that contains the only mention of writing in the entire work. Through his youngest daughter, this man was also the grandfather of the Trojan hero Sarpedon. This man was sent on increasingly treacherous missions to fight the Solymi (“SO-lim-ee”) and the Amazons by a king who was too afraid of violating xenia to kill him personally. On the instruction of the seer Poleidos, this man sacrificed a bull to his father, Poseidon, after sleeping in the temple of Athena in order to obtain a golden bridle that he used to capture the creature that created the Hippocrene spring. In a classic display of hubris, this man attempted to fly to the peak of Olympus, but he was thrown off when a gadfly sent by Zeus stung his mount. For 10 points, name this Greek hero who killed the Chimera and tamed Pegasus.
ANSWER: Bellerophon [or Bellerophontes] &lt;Mythology&gt;

255.
ID: 159258  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature World
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet B (Wright State, Johns Hopkins A, and UNC A) | Number: 2
TOSSUP: A work of “theory-fiction” from this country that discusses ideas like the “Tellurian Insurgency” against “Solar Capitalism” is entitled Cyclonopedia. An author from this country wrote a book that recounts an incident in Oklahoma in which a group of students tortured another student who they suspected of being a secret police agent. The narrator of that book meets a man who she calls her “magician” after being expelled from a university post. A girl from this country is sent to Vienna to attend a French school at the end of “The Story of a Childhood,” the first part of an autobiographical graphic novel by an author born in this country. A memoir from this country is about a book club whose members read The Great Gatsby and a novel by Vladimir Nabokov. For 10 points, name this birth country of Marjane Satrapi (“mar-ZHAHN sah-trah-pee”) and Azar Nafisi, the authors of Persepolis and Reading Lolita in Tehran.
ANSWER: Iran [or Islamic Republic of Iran; or Jomhuri-ye Eslami-ye Iran; or Persia] &lt;World Literature&gt;

256.
ID: 159251  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet A (Penn State A, McGill A, Florida A, and Rutgers B) | Number: 16
TOSSUP: A composer from this country omitted the Dies Irae (“DEE-ess EE-ray”) from his 6-voice requiem Officium Defunctorum. In a piano suite from this country, a solemn religious song in F-sharp major notated with three staves (“stavz”) interrupts a boisterous march celebrating Corpus Christi Day. A seven-movement work that is [emphasize] set in this country begins with the bell of the Ave Maria and ends with the retreat of a military night watch. A ballet from this country includes a “Dance of terror” and a “Song of the will-o’-the-wisp.” While working in this country, Luigi Boccherini (“bo-care-REE-nee”) wrote a string quintet called Night Music of the Streets of [a city in this country]. This country is home to Tomás Luis de Victoria and the composer of the ballet Love, the Magician. For 10 points, name this home country of Isaac Albéniz (“EE-sahk all-BAY-neese”) and Manuel de Falla (“deh FAH-yah”), the origin of dances such as the seguidilla (“say-ghee-DEE-yah”) and the fandango.
ANSWER: Spain [or Kingdom of Spain, or Reino de España] (The second sentence is about Iberia by Albéniz.) &lt;Music&gt;

257.
ID: 159259  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet B (Wright State, Johns Hopkins A, and UNC A) | Number: 3
TOSSUP: This good appears in the title of a painting in which a cut-off, gold-framed painting of a boat appears in the right foreground and a figure uses both of his palms to inspect this good. The production of this good is shown in a number of genre paintings by William Aiken Walker. A large amount of this good sits on a table in the background of a painting in which the artist’s uncle, Michel Musson, sits and “classes” a sample of this good. During the 20th century, a so-called “duck” made from this good became a cheaper alternative to linen for painting canvases. A painting by Edgar Degas (“day-GAH”) depicts the activities of an office for exchanging this good in New Orleans. For 10 points, name this good that Winslow Homer portrayed being harvested in an 1876 painting of two black sharecroppers.
ANSWER: cotton [accept Cotton Merchants in New Orleans, A Cotton Office in New Orleans, or The Cotton Pickers] &lt;Painting&gt;

258.
ID: 159247  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet A (Penn State A, McGill A, Florida A, and Rutgers B) | Number: 12
TOSSUP: Carciplexes (“CAR-sih-plex-iz”) are used to prevent [4]annulene (“four ANN-yoo-leen”) from dimerizing via this reaction, which is used to trap benzyne (“BEN-zyne”) intermediates. A “retro-” version of this reaction can occur in mass spectrometry. A methyl vinyl ketone was used in this reaction by Breslow (“BRESS-loh”) to show that it undergoes hydrophobic acceleration. Dihydropyran (“dy-HY-dro-PIE-ran”) derivatives are synthesized by replacing one reactant in this reaction with an aldehyde. This reaction preferentially forms 1,2- or 1,4-products. The transition state of this reaction maximizes the overlap between HOMO and LUMO by pointing the electron-withdrawing groups of one reactant inward in the endo configuration. For 10 points, name this reaction in which cyclohexene derivatives are formed from a 4-plus-2 cycloaddition between dienes and dienophiles.
ANSWER: Diels–Alder reaction &lt;Chemistry&gt;

259.
ID: 159240  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet A (Penn State A, McGill A, Florida A, and Rutgers B) | Number: 5
TOSSUP: Maize farmers in this country argue that its government should end its ban on the sale of the alcoholic beverage ara. This country’s exiled People’s Party represents a group of ethnic minorities known collectively as “Southerners,” who were expelled in the 1990s. This country’s Paro Valley is home to the cliffside Tiger’s Nest Monastery as well as its difficult-to-access, single-runway international airport. Archery is the national sport of this country, whose 2003 ban on mountaineering has kept its mountain Gangkhar Puensum the tallest unclimbed peak in the world. This home of dzong architecture is led by the “dragon kings” of the Wangchuck dynasty. For 10 points, name this small Himalayan monarchy ruled from Thimphu (“tim-POO”).
ANSWER: Bhutan [or Kingdom of Bhutan; or Druk Yul; or Druk Gyal Khap] &lt;Geography&gt;

260.
ID: 159248  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet A (Penn State A, McGill A, Florida A, and Rutgers B) | Number: 13
TOSSUP: In Travels with Charley, John Steinbeck spends Thanksgiving with a wealthy family in this US state, which he calls “a nation in every sense of the word.” This state’s unincorporated community of Thalia is the setting for novels like Horseman, Pass By. Characters like Woodrow Call and Gus McCrae work in a fictional town in this state. A judge in this state orders the return of Jimmy Blevins’s horse to John Grady Cole. A trip from this state to Montana is the subject of Lonesome Dove by Larry McMurtry, who set many of his novels in this state. In a 2005 novel, Carla Jean and Llewelyn Moss are killed in this state with a cattle gun by the insane hitman Anton Chigurh. For 10 points, Cormac McCarthy’s All the Pretty Horses and No Country for Old Men are set in Mexico and what neighboring US state?
ANSWER: Texas &lt;American Literature&gt;

261.
ID: 159260  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature World
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet B (Wright State, Johns Hopkins A, and UNC A) | Number: 4
TOSSUP: A language from this country does not follow the “immediacy of experience principle,” according to a “reassessment” of it by Nevins, Pesetsky, and Rodrigues (“rod-REE-gez”). Many dialects of this country’s most common language feature L-vocalization and palatalization of the stops “t” and “d” into affricates (“AFF-ruh-kits”) before a high front vowel. A scholar who wrote about a language in this country in the book Don’t Sleep, There Are Snakes claims that its apparent lack of recursion is evidence against Chomsky’s universal grammar; that linguist is Daniel Everett. Unlike its European counterpart, many dialects of the most common language in this country, such as carioca (“kah-ree-OH-kah”) and paulista (“pow-LEECE-tah”), replace the informal second-person “tu” with the formal “você” (“vo-SAY”). For 10 points, name this country home to the tribal language of Pirahã (“PEE-ruh-hah”) and the majority of the world’s speakers of Portuguese.
ANSWER: Brazil [or Federative Republic of Brazil; or República Federativa do Brasil] &lt;Social Science&gt;

262.
ID: 159245  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature World
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet A (Penn State A, McGill A, Florida A, and Rutgers B) | Number: 10
TOSSUP: A character born in this country puts a kitten named Schwarz inside a drum and beats the drum to drown out the kitten’s cries. An American-born author who also lived in this country wrote about Camila and her mother, the real-life poet Salomé Ureña (“sah-loh-MAY oo-RAIN-yah”), in the novel In the Name of Salomé. In a novel set in this country, three sisters are killed along with their driver Rufino and their bodies are thrown off a cliff. Four sisters born in this country named Sofía, Sandra, Carla, and Yolanda have their lives narrated in reverse chronological order in the novel How the García Girls Lost Their Accents by Julia Alvarez. A science-fiction nerd from this country who lives in New Jersey is the protagonist of the novel The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao. For 10 points, name this birthplace of Junot Díaz (“JOO-noh DEE-azz”).
ANSWER: Dominican Republic [or República Dominicana; do not accept or prompt on “Dominica”] &lt;World Literature&gt;

263.
ID: 159241  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet A (Penn State A, McGill A, Florida A, and Rutgers B) | Number: 6
TOSSUP: People with this condition were the subject of the STOP trial, which recommended yearly transcranial dopplers. Rivipansel (“RIV-uh-PAN-sell”) and other selectin inhibitors are promising treatments for this disease. A treatment for this disease also functions as a ribonucleotide reductase inhibitor and is superior to anagrelide (“uh-NAG-ruh-lide”) for treating ET. Avascular (“uh-VASS-kyoo-ler”) necrosis of the femur and leg ulcers are common complications of this disease, whose other complications include stroke, acute chest syndrome, and painful vaso-occlusive crises. Hydroxyurea (“hydroxy-yoo-REE-uh”) treats this disease by increasing the expression of the fetal form of a certain protein. This disease causes splenic sequestration. Its prevalence in certain populations is explained by a heterozygote advantage for malaria resistance. For 10 points, name this disease caused by a glutamic-acid-to-valine mutation in the beta chain of hemoglobin, which causes red blood cells to assume an unusual shape.
ANSWER: sickle-cell anemia [or sickle-cell disease or SCD or SCA] &lt;Biology&gt;

264.
ID: 159261  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet B (Wright State, Johns Hopkins A, and UNC A) | Number: 5
TOSSUP: A mural painter in one of these locations decides to kill himself by making an appointment with the Federal Bureau of Termination in Kurt Vonnegut’s story “2 B R 0 2 B” (“to be R not to be”). Shortly after Howard and Ann Weiss get home from one of these locations, a baker insistently calls them to ask them to pick up a cake for their son in Raymond Carver’s story “A Small, Good Thing.” A character dreams that one of these places is a “mechanical slaughterhouse” where Old Blastic is killed. Dale Harding is among the “acutes” who live in one of these places in a novel whose protagonist convinces the prostitute Candy to sleep with the stuttering Billy Bibbit. Chief Bromden escapes from one of these locations in a novel in which Randle McMurphy butts heads with Mildred Ratched. For 10 points, name this type of institution where Ken Kesey’s One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest is set.
ANSWER: hospitals [accept mental hospitals or psychiatric hospitals or the Chicago Lying-In Hospital; accept mental asylums or insane asylums or mental institutions] &lt;American Literature&gt;

265.
ID: 159242  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet A (Penn State A, McGill A, Florida A, and Rutgers B) | Number: 7
TOSSUP: This word precedes the phrase “I listen” before the statement that “for many a time I have been half in love with easeful Death” in John Keats’s “Ode to a Nightingale.” A poem with this adjective in its title describes how “the tangled bine-stems scored the sky like strings of broken lyres.” An animal described by this adjective reminds the speaker of “some blessed Hope, whereof he knew and I was unaware” in a poem that begins with the line “I leant upon a coppice (“COP-iss”) gate.” A place described by this adjective is “swept with confused alarms of struggle and flight” and is “where ignorant armies clash by night.” That place is a metaphorical plain mentioned in Matthew Arnold’s “Dover Beach.” For 10 points, name this adjective that describes the title thrush of a poem by Thomas Hardy.
ANSWER: darkling &lt;British Literature&gt;

266.
ID: 159244  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet A (Penn State A, McGill A, Florida A, and Rutgers B) | Number: 9
TOSSUP: A ruler of this country banned the wearing of black shoes after retaking the city of Larache (“la-RAHSH”) and relied on black slave soldiers known as Guichs (“geesh”) to maintain power. The Wattasid dynasty succeeded the Marinid dynasty as the rulers of this modern-day country. The Saadi dynasty based in this modern-day country gained control of salt and gold trade routes after defeating the Songhai Empire. Portuguese king Sebastian I died in the Battle of Three Kings fought at this country’s city of Ksar el-Kebir. This country was reunified in 1631 by the Alaouite dynasty, which rules this country to this day. The Almohad and Almoravid dynasties were based in this modern-day country, from which they ruled parts of the Iberian Peninsula. For 10 points, name this North African country whose cities include Tangiers and Fez.
ANSWER: Morocco [or Kingdom of Morocco; or al-Mamlaka al-Maghribia] &lt;World History&gt;

267.
ID: 159238  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet A (Penn State A, McGill A, Florida A, and Rutgers B) | Number: 3
TOSSUP: This party refuses to apologize for the murders of sixteen people known as the “Disappeared,” whose members included a widowed mother-of-ten whose body wasn’t found until 2003. This party was conceived in a 1904 book that used the dual monarchy of Austria-Hungary as a blueprint for a future model of governance. The revelation that MI5 (“M-I-five”) agent Denis Donaldson was secretly an informer for this party led to the Stormontgate scandal in 2002. This party, whose name translates to “We Ourselves,” was founded by Arthur Griffith. This party began employing the “Armalite and ballot box” strategy after Bobby Sands died of a hunger strike in prison in 1981. Eamon de Valera (“EH-min deh vuh-LEH-ruh”) and his supporters split off from this party in 1926 to form Fianna Fáil (“FEE-uh-nuh FALL”). For 10 points, name this party with historical ties to the Provisional IRA.
ANSWER: Sinn Féin (“shin fain”) [do not accept or prompt on “IRA” or “Provisional IRA”] &lt;British History&gt;

268.
ID: 159249  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Mythology | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet A (Penn State A, McGill A, Florida A, and Rutgers B) | Number: 14
TOSSUP: A monster with this physical characteristic is killed by his half-brother, the hero Basat, in the Turkic Book of Dede Korkut. Though it has nothing to do with size, a character with this physical characteristic steals the abundance-granting cow Glas Gaibhnenn (“gloss gahv-len”) and locks his daughter up in a tower on Tory Island. That leader of the Fomorians with this physical feature is eventually killed by his grandson Lugh (“loo”) at the battle of Magh Tuireadh (“my TEER-ugh”). The giant Balor has this characteristic, which is also held by a figure who killed Acis with a boulder out of jealousy over the nymph Galatea. A god voluntarily gained this characteristic so that he could drink from Mimir’s well. Arges, Brontes, and Steropes make up a trio of figures with this characteristic that crafted Hades’s helmet and Zeus’s thunderbolts. For 10 points, name this physical trait possessed by Polyphemus and all other cyclops.
ANSWER: having one eye [accept being a cyclops until read; prompt on having an evil eye] &lt;Mythology&gt;

269.
ID: 159252  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature European
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet A (Penn State A, McGill A, Florida A, and Rutgers B) | Number: 17
TOSSUP: The genre of the bourgeois tragedy originated in this century, and is exemplified by a play from this century in which Mellefont leaves his mistress Marwood for the title character. In a play written in this century, the title character’s adopted daughter Recha is saved from a house fire. The title character of a play written in this century responds “He can lick me in the arse” when asked to surrender. In this century, the author of Miss Sara Sampson wrote a play whose title character tells a parable about three indistinguishable rings bequeathed to three brothers; that play is titled Nathan the Wise. A movement in this century took its name from a Friedrich Klinger play, and includes a novel whose protagonist is buried under a linden tree after shooting himself over his unrequited love for Charlotte. For 10 points, Goethe published The Sorrows of Young Werther (“VAIR-tur”) near the end of what century?
ANSWER: 18th century [or 1700s] &lt;European Literature&gt;

270.
ID: 159236  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Other
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet A (Penn State A, McGill A, Florida A, and Rutgers B) | Number: 1
TOSSUP: David Sudarsky et al. classified these objects into five types based on albedo and reflection spectra. These objects usually radiate more energy than they receive, with a specific example radiating as much as 2.3 times the incoming energy; one explanation for that difference is the Kelvin–Helmholtz mechanism. Hydrodynamic escape is not prominent beyond the frost line, which allows these objects to form; however, “hot” examples inside the frost line, including 51 Pegasi b, have been observed. These planets, which experience differential rotation, are similar but distinct from Uranus and Neptune, which contain mostly elements heavier than hydrogen and helium, in contrast to these planets. For 10 points, what type of large planet has a small rocky core surrounded by a less dense phase of matter?
ANSWER: gas giants [or Jovian planets; accept hot Jupiters; prompt on giants, giant planets, exoplanets, outer planets, or other answers involving planets; prompt on Jupiter and Saturn] &lt;Other Science (Astronomy)&gt;

271.
ID: 159265  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Trash | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet B (Wright State, Johns Hopkins A, and UNC A) | Number: 9
TOSSUP: In a 2017 video game, this character is able to teleport across a map by either “morphing” or “shifting.” In a film that features this character, he is incapacitated after being stabbed in the eye with a pen formerly owned by Stephen King. This character is reconstructed by nanites in a film in which he punches the head off of the android KM-14 and shatters a girl’s head after freezing it with liquid nitrogen. In the fifth film in this character’s franchise, he is emulated by Roy Burns, who is defeated by the recurring protagonist Tommy Jarvis. In his first appearance, this villain pops out of a lake to attack Alice Hardy in a dream sequence after his mother kills various counselors at Camp Crystal Lake. For 10 points, name this killer who wears a hockey mask from the Friday the 13th franchise.
ANSWER: Jason Voorhees [prompt on Voorhees] &lt;Trash&gt;

272.
ID: 159263  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Religion | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet B (Wright State, Johns Hopkins A, and UNC A) | Number: 7
TOSSUP: In 2015, Raphael I (“the first”) Sako, the patriarch of an Eastern Catholic Church located in this country, proposed a union of it and two other Nestorian churches headquartered here. A sect of Mandaeans (“man-DEE-ins”) in this country who worship John the Baptist as their chief prophet are the Sabians (“SAY-bee-ins”). A non-Christian Book of Revelation and Black Book comprise the scripture of a religious minority primarily located in this country, whose devotees make pilgrimages to the shrine of Sheikh Adi ibn Musafir, an avatar of Melek Taus (“tah-OOSE”). This home country of the Chaldean (“kal-DEE-in”) Catholic Church is also home to a religious minority who have undergone violent persecution due to accusations of devil worship by members of Daesh (“DAH-eesh”). For 10 points, name this home country of the Yazidis, an ethnic minority who speak Kurdish and live in northern cities such as Mosul.
ANSWER: Iraq [or Republic of Iraq] &lt;Religion&gt;

273.
ID: 159256  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet A (Penn State A, McGill A, Florida A, and Rutgers B) | Number: 21
TOSSUP: At a 1990 convention for this party, delegates shouted “sellout” and “Judas” to a leader of it who joked that “he didn’t speak out of both sides of his mouth.” A leader of this party used an approach that he termed “sunny ways” to resolve a dispute over funding separate schools for Catholics in the 1890s. John Turner, a leader of this party, was told “you had an option, sir” while trying to defend patronage appointments by this party. A request to dissolve parliament by a leader of this party was refused by Governor-General Julian Byng in 1926. A leader of this party said “just watch me” when asked how far he would go to resolve the October Crisis. Wilfrid Laurier, William Lyon Mackenzie King, and Pierre Trudeau belonged to, for 10 points, what Canadian party, which opposes the Conservative Party?
ANSWER: Liberal Party of Canada &lt;World History&gt; Bonuses

274.
ID: 159269  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet B (Wright State, Johns Hopkins A, and UNC A) | Number: 13
TOSSUP: The perpetrator of an attack in this state repeatedly said, “You don’t know how happy that makes me” to Vera Palmer after she opened a malfunctioning elevator for him. Claire Wilson was shot through the womb in this state while eight months pregnant, killing her unborn baby. On August 1, 1966, 14 people were shot to death by Charles Whitman from the observation deck of a tower in this state’s flagship public university. Governor John Connolly was injured while riding in a limousine in an attack in this state’s Dealey Plaza. A former book depository in this state was the shooting perch of an assassin who was later killed by nightclub owner Jack Ruby; that assassination was investigated by the Warren Commission. For 10 points, name this state where Lee Harvey Oswald assassinated John F. Kennedy in Dallas.
ANSWER: Texas &lt;American History&gt;

275.
ID: 159277  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet B (Wright State, Johns Hopkins A, and UNC A) | Number: 21
TOSSUP: One of this author’s protagonists realizes that he doesn’t know how to make modern weaponry or a printing press after he ends up in the Medieval Era, but he’s taken for a miracle-worker anyway because of his gold cross. In a novel by this author, Sylvia plots to cut down the Great Tree of Groby, which is a symbol of her husband’s family, after learning of his affair with the suffragette Valentine Wannop. This author wrote a novel that begins with the line “This is the saddest story I have ever heard,” in which John Dowell’s wife Florence fakes a heart ailment to facilitate an extramarital affair. For 10 points, name this novelist who wrote about the “last Tory” Christopher Tietjens (“TEE-chins”) and the soldier Edward Ashburnham in Parade’s End and The Good Soldier, respectively.
ANSWER: Ford Madox Ford [or Ford Hermann Hueffer] (The first sentence is about Ladies Whose Bright Eyes.) &lt;British Literature&gt; Bonuses

276.
ID: 159270  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Mythology | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet B (Wright State, Johns Hopkins A, and UNC A) | Number: 14
TOSSUP: The bodhisattva (“boh-dee-SUT-vuh”) Manjushri is most commonly depicted riding one of these creatures. One of these creatures nurses King Gesar (“GEZ-er”) in a Tibetan epic. It’s not a dog, but according to Okinawan legend, one of these animals caused a boulder to fall from heaven and crush a dragon who was attacking the port of Naha. In Balinese mythology, the demon mother Rangda is in a constant struggle with the heroic spirit king Barong, who resembles one of these animals. In East Asian countries, statues of these creatures always appear in opposite-gender pairs, often with the male having an open mouth. An avatar of Vishnu that was half-this animal is often depicted in the process of destroying his nemesis, the demon Hiranyakashipu. The national symbol of Singapore is a combination of this animal and a fish. A popular Chinese dance depicts, for 10 points, what maned felines?
ANSWER: lions [accept shishi or shisa until read; accept lion statues or lion dance; prompt on cat] &lt;Mythology&gt;

277.
ID: 159255  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet A (Penn State A, McGill A, Florida A, and Rutgers B) | Number: 20
TOSSUP: Summations of this quantity can be represented graphically with arrows on the sides of triangles that correspond to 6j symbols, or hexagons that correspond to 9j symbols. Matrix elements of tensor operators in this quantity’s eigenbasis are proportional to a reduced matrix element. The cross product of p with this quantity is one term in the Runge–Lenz (“ROON-guh LENTS”) vector. Magnetic moment equals this vector quantity times the gyromagnetic ratio. If a system is rotationally invariant, then this quantity is conserved according to Noether’s (“NUR-tuh’s”) theorem, and it is likewise conserved in the absence of external torque. For 10 points, name this quantity defined as linear momentum cross r, or equivalently, moment of inertia times angular velocity.
ANSWER: angular momentum [accept spin angular momentum before “linear momentum”; prompt on momentum; do not accept or prompt on “linear momentum”] &lt;Physics&gt;

278.
ID: 159275  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Philosophy | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet B (Wright State, Johns Hopkins A, and UNC A) | Number: 19
TOSSUP: This book identifies one concept as a form of lawfulness that enforces only the “law of movement” of nature or history in order to achieve the “fabrication of mankind.” The first section of this book points to movements led by Marcel Déat (“day-AH”) and Jacques Doriot (“dor-YO”) as examples of the continued mainstream popularity of anti-Dreyfusard (“anti-dray-foo-SAR”) ideas in 20th-century France. This book describes its title concept as “a system in which all men have become equally superfluous.” According to this book, “continental imperialist” movements such as pan-Slavism helped to institutionalize scientific racism and anti-Semitism on the path to creating this book’s title form of government. This book was written seven years before its author’s book The Human Condition. For 10 points, name this book by Hannah Arendt (“AR-unt”) that analyzes the emergence of Stalinism and Nazism.
ANSWER: The Origins of Totalitarianism &lt;Philosophy&gt;

279.
ID: 159237  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Other
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet A (Penn State A, McGill A, Florida A, and Rutgers B) | Number: 2
TOSSUP: A type of these objects is the subject of each of the 600-plus entries in a found-art “archive” by Saâdane Afif (“sah-DAHN ah-FEEF”). They’re not photographs, but two of them given the subtitles “Buddha” and “Madonna” were included in Sherrie Levine’s exhibit Mayhem. The New York Guggenheim is home to a sculpture of one of these objects that was created as “one-percent art for the ninety-nine percent” and is titled America. Psycho was the first American feature film to depict one of these objects in operation. Maurizio Cattelan created an 18-karat gold version of these objects, another example of which was rejected by the New York Society of Independent Artists in 1917 and was signed “R. Mutt.” For 10 points, Marcel Duchamp’s readymade Fountain is an example of what kind of plumbing fixture?
ANSWER: toilets [or urinals; prompt on fountains or readymades until “one-percent”] &lt;Other Arts&gt;

280.
ID: 159239  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Religion | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet A (Penn State A, McGill A, Florida A, and Rutgers B) | Number: 4
TOSSUP: This man became exceedingly wealthy by throwing peeled branches into watering troughs (“troffs”) to make sheep have spotted and striped offspring. This man condemned two of his sons after they murdered all the men of Shechem in retaliation for the rape of their sister. On his deathbed, he condemned his eldest son for defiling his bed by sleeping with his concubine. In Islamic tradition, since this man’s father was a prophet, his blessing was intentional, while in Christian tradition, he had to deceive his father by wearing goatskin on his arms. This man sold some red lentil soup to his older brother Esau in exchange for his birthright. Jews refuse to eat meat from the sciatic nerve in honor of an injury that this man acquired while wrestling an angel who then gave him the name Israel. For 10 points, name this son of Isaac and patriarch to the twelve tribes.
ANSWER: Jacob [or Yaqub; accept Israel or Yisrael until it is read] &lt;Religion&gt;

281.
ID: 159243  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Philosophy | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet A (Penn State A, McGill A, Florida A, and Rutgers B) | Number: 8
TOSSUP: An essay by this thinker claimed that “no judgment of the deed” can be derived from the sixth commandment, which therefore makes it not a law but instead a guideline. That essay by this philosopher argues that whether a certain practice is “historically acknowledged” determines whether it takes on a “lawmaking” or “law-preserving” form, and was written in response to a book by George Sorel. The final section of an essay by this author of “Critique of Violence” argues that fascism seeks to give the masses “expression” while keeping property relations unchanged, therefore inevitably leading to the aestheticization of political life. In that essay, this thinker analyzed how the social function of art shifts from “ritual” to politics as the practice of copying removes the “aura” from artworks. For 10 points, name this Marxist author of “The Work of Art in the Age of Mechanical Reproduction.”
ANSWER: Walter Benjamin (“BEN-ya-meen”) &lt;Philosophy&gt;

282.
ID: 159246  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet A (Penn State A, McGill A, Florida A, and Rutgers B) | Number: 11
TOSSUP: By allowing the sublime to become an “absolute of perfect sensations,” this artist failed in an attempt to “destroy the Renaissance picture,” according to an essay by Barnett Newman. The subtitle of Dan Flavin’s greens crossing greens notes that this artist “lacked green.” Harry Holtzman controversially transformed this artist’s idiosyncratic method of decorating his studio into a set of this man’s “wall works.” This painter rotated his standard style by 45 degrees to create his “lozenge” (“LAH-zinj”) paintings. This man’s rejection of diagonal lines led to a break with Theo van Doesburg (“TAY-oh von DOOZ-burk”), the publisher of a journal in which this artist advocated for “neo-plasticism.” Red, blue, and grey squares are interspersed along lines of yellow in a work that symbolized busy New York streets. For 10 points, name this prominent member of De Stijl (“duh style”) who painted Broadway Boogie-Woogie.
ANSWER: Piet Mondrian (“peet MON-dree-ahn”) [or Pieter Cornelius Mondriaan] &lt;Painting&gt;

283.
ID: 159281  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Religion | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet C (MSU A, NYU B, UCLA A, and Virginia A) | Number: 4
TOSSUP: The final chapter of Saint Jerome’s treatise denouncing Jovinianus consists of a defense of this practice. Saint Augustine wrote that “the end of the world would be hastened” if people asked a certain question in good faith in his tract “On the Good of” this practice. The decree of Tametsi regulated this practice until Pius X replaced it with the Ne Temere decree, which tightened this practice’s requirement of clandestinity. Tribunals concerning the practice of this sacrament can make rulings based on the Pauline and Petrine privileges. Pope Francis has enacted new “nullity trial reforms” regarding this sacrament, which cannot be performed during the Easter Triduum or for members of the clergy. For 10 points, name this sacrament that the Catholic Church does not permit for same-sex couples.
ANSWER: marriage [or matrimony] &lt;Religion&gt;

284.
ID: 159250  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet A (Penn State A, McGill A, Florida A, and Rutgers B) | Number: 15
TOSSUP: Historians George Morgenstern and Charles Tansill have argued that this event was intended as a “back door to war.” Robert Stinnett argued that the McCollum memo proved that this event was not unexpected in his book Day of Deceit. Gordon Prange wrote the book At Dawn We Slept about this event. This event was investigated by the first Roberts Commission, which found Husband Kimmel and Walter Short guilty of “dereliction of duty.” The planner of this event reportedly said that its result was merely “awakening a sleeping giant.” A codeword used in this event inspired the title of the film Tora! Tora! Tora!. In an address to Congress the day after this event, it was described as “a day that will live in infamy.” The USS Arizona was destroyed in, for 10 points, what event that caused the United States to enter World War II?
ANSWER: attack on Pearl Harbor [accept equivalents like the bombing of Pearl Harbor] &lt;American History&gt;

285.
ID: 159254  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet A (Penn State A, McGill A, Florida A, and Rutgers B) | Number: 19
TOSSUP: Building on the work of Peter Marris, a controversial 1960 paper characterized grief as the inability to fully exercise this phenomenon. Allan Schore (“shore”) argues that this phenomenon is a “regulation of synchrony” via the orbitofrontal systems of the people in which it occurs. Robert Hinde helped that thinker introduce the ethological work of Konrad Lorenz to a theory of this phenomenon in the 1950s. According to the original theorizer of this phenomenon, its “primary strategy” involves “proximity seeking” as a method of alleviating distress. This phenomenon was divided into “anxious-resistant,” “anxious-avoidant,” and “secure” forms in the Strange Situation experiments of Mary Ainsworth. Separation anxiety occurs when the namesake “figure” of this phenomenon is unavailable. For 10 points, John Bowlby theorized what phenomenon of bonding between infants and caregivers?
ANSWER: attachment [accept more specific forms, such as maternal attachment, paternal attachment, parent-child attachment; accept word forms, such as attached or attaching] &lt;Social Science&gt;

286.
ID: 159257  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet B (Wright State, Johns Hopkins A, and UNC A) | Number: 1
TOSSUP: The inertial mass of charge carriers in superconductors makes them act like an effective “kinetic” one of these devices. Planar chip examples of these devices are used in many RF circuits, and the SRF quantifies the point where the parasitic characteristics of these devices dominate their normal behavior. In a type of this device known as a saturable reactor, AC current flow is controlled by a secondary DC current. Nickel zinc ferrites are used in these two-terminal devices when they need to operate at high frequency. The reactance of these devices is proportional to signal frequency. The sign of the voltage across these devices is explained by Lenz’s law. Radio receivers use a resonant circuit consisting of one of these devices and a capacitor. For 10 points, name these circuit components that store energy in the magnetic field, and have a namesake quantity measured in henries.
ANSWER: inductors [or chokes; prompt on wire coils or equivalents] &lt;Physics&gt;

287.
ID: 159276  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet B (Wright State, Johns Hopkins A, and UNC A) | Number: 20
TOSSUP: In 2009, Palau agreed to provide asylum to seventeen detainees of this ethnicity from Guantanamo Bay. After Thai authorities denied members of this ethnicity the right to travel to Turkey for asylum, the Grey Wolves bombed the Erawan Shrine in 2015. In 2013, three members of ETIM, a terrorist organization advocating for a separate homeland for these people, crashed a 4×4 (“four-by-four”) vehicle in a suicide attack that killed five people total. These people are the largest ethnic group in a national subdivision whose name translates as “New Frontier.” A proposed independent state for these people is called the Republic of East Turkestan. The alleged rape of a woman by men of this ethnicity sparked the 2009 Urumqi (“uh-rum-CHEE”) riots. For 10 points, name this minority who live in the Xinjiang (“shin-jyong”) Autonomous Region of China.
ANSWER: Uyghurs (“WEE-gurs”) [do not accept or prompt on “Muslims”] &lt;World History&gt;

288.
ID: 159271  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet B (Wright State, Johns Hopkins A, and UNC A) | Number: 15
TOSSUP: In a play by this author, a gentleman protests that “Louisa” doesn’t rhyme with “Whitsun week” while listening to love poetry addressed to his chauffeur’s sister Louisa. One of this playwright’s characters says that “to be in hell is to drift” and “to be in heaven is to steer” during a debate about the Life Force. In a play by this author, it is revealed that Ann persuaded her father to name the author of The Revolutionist’s Handbook as one of her guardians in a scheme to marry him. That play about the anarchist Jack Tanner includes a third act called “Don Juan in Hell,” which is often performed separately. This author used the Serbo-Bulgarian War as the backdrop for a play in which Raina Petkoff calls Bluntschli her “chocolate-cream soldier.” For 10 points, name this author of Man and Superman and Arms and the Man.
ANSWER: George Bernard Shaw &lt;British Literature&gt;

289.
ID: 159266  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet B (Wright State, Johns Hopkins A, and UNC A) | Number: 10
TOSSUP: The eldest of a set of seafaring siblings in this empire lost his arm while trying to capture the port city of Bougie (“boo-ZHEE”), leading to him being nicknamed “Silver Arm.” This empire beheaded captured prisoners and floated their decapitated bodies on mock crucifixes after the capture of Fort St. Elmo. Francis I and this empire joined forces to capture the port city of Nice (“neese”). Jean de La Valette led the Knights Hospitaller in a successful defense against this empire’s siege of Malta. Andrea Doria was defeated by this empire’s admiral Hayreddin Barbarossa at the 1538 Battle of Preveza, which solidified this empire’s naval supremacy until it was defeated by Holy League forces commanded by Don John of Austria. For 10 points, name this empire whose domination of the Mediterranean was ended at the Battle of Lepanto.
ANSWER: Ottoman Empire [or Exalted Ottoman State; or Devlet-i Aliye-i Osmaniye; or Osmanlı Devleti; or Osmanlı İmparatorluğu; accept Turkish Empire; prompt on Turkey] &lt;European History&gt;

290.
ID: 159264  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History British
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet B (Wright State, Johns Hopkins A, and UNC A) | Number: 8
TOSSUP: This king’s second wife was rumored to be a changeling. In a battle that took place two days after a disastrous naval defeat at the Battle of Beachy Head, this king abandoned his Irish supporters, causing him to be nicknamed “the shit” in Ireland. The Tory and Whig parties formed during the Exclusion Crisis, which tried to prevent this king from ascending to the throne. “Hanging Judge” George Jeffreys sentenced hundreds of rebels to death in the Bloody Assizes (“uh-SIZE-izz”) after an uprising that intended to replace this king with his nephew the Duke of Monmouth. After this king’s deposition, the Jacobite movement sought to restore this king and his descendants to the throne. This man fled to the court of Louis XIV (“the fourteenth”) after his defeat at the 1690 Battle of the Boyne. For 10 points, name this last Stuart king, who was deposed by William and Mary in the Glorious Revolution.
ANSWER: James II [or James VII of Scotland; prompt on James] &lt;British History&gt;

291.
ID: 159286  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet C (MSU A, NYU B, UCLA A, and Virginia A) | Number: 9
TOSSUP: A piece in this genre opens with a tutti chord and a theme in triplets that ends with an eighth-note E, a half-note F, and resolves back to E; that three-note figure then repeats an octave lower. The third movement of Shostakovich’s Eighth String Quartet ends with a violin quoting the angular four-note motto that opens his first piece in this genre. Camille Saint-Saëns’s (“kuh-MEE san-SAWNS’s”) first piece of this type in A minor has one continuous movement. Beatrice Harrison first recorded and Felix Salmond first played a piece of this type whose opening recitative marked “nobilmente” begins with the soloist’s wide half-note E minor chord. An EMI recording of that E minor work of this type was conducted by Sir John Barbirolli. Jacqueline du Pré popularized Edward Elgar’s only foray into, for 10 points, what type of composition for a low string instrument accompanied by an orchestra?
ANSWER: cello concerto [prompt on concerto or CC] &lt;Music&gt;

292.
ID: 159278  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature European
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet C (MSU A, NYU B, UCLA A, and Virginia A) | Number: 1
TOSSUP: A six-page story by this author is exhaustively analyzed in a 300-page book by A. J. Greimas (“greh-MOSS”) subtitled “The Semiotics of Text.” That story by this author, in which an officer cooks the fish of two men whom he has just executed for refusing to tell him a password, is titled “Two Friends.” This author created a man who pretends to kiss a prostitute but instead blows tobacco smoke down her throat, as well as a man who shoots out the eyes of a portrait of a woman with a mustache drawn on it. In a story by this author, the prostitute Rachel grabs a dessert knife and sticks it in the throat of an officer with an effeminate nickname. Cornudet (“kor-noo-DAY”) whistles the Marseillaise (“mar-say-YEZ”) after Elizabeth Rousset sleeps with a Prussian officer to gain safe passage in another story by this author. For 10 points, name this French writer of “Mademoiselle Fifi” and “Boule de Suif” (“bool duh SWEEF”).
ANSWER: Guy de Maupassant (“mo-pah-SAWN”) &lt;European Literature&gt;

293.
ID: 159262  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet B (Wright State, Johns Hopkins A, and UNC A) | Number: 6
TOSSUP: Griller and Ingold asserted that the cyclization of a 5-hexene derivative can be used as a “clock” for reactions of these molecules. MTSL is added with cysteine (“SIS-teen”) in a common site-specific labeling method that uses these molecules. A modulating field of 100 kilohertz and an applied field of 8 to 12 gigahertz are used in a technique for imaging these molecules, which uses DPPH as a standard and plots absorbance and the first derivative of absorbance. Nitroso examples of these molecules like TEMPO are often persistent, so they’re used as traps in EPR spectroscopy. Solvent cages assist a type of polymerization that uses these molecules, which begins with light- or heat-catalyzed homolysis. Reactions of these molecules are drawn using fish-hook arrows, and the superoxide example of these molecules is a common cause of DNA damage. For 10 points, name these molecules that contain unpaired electrons.
ANSWER: free radicals [prompt on spin; prompt on paramagnetic molecules or species] &lt;Chemistry&gt;

294.
ID: 159282  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Other
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet C (MSU A, NYU B, UCLA A, and Virginia A) | Number: 5
TOSSUP: Duncan et al. studied populations in this region using direct numerical integration, predicting a density profile proportional to a to the negative gamma, and that this region has a sharp inner edge. Boffin et al. proposed that Scholz’s Star migrated through and disrupted this region. Hills proposed a relatively dense, dynamically active “inner” part of this region to explain the effects of galactic tidal forces on it. Objects in this region are perturbed by the gravity of giant molecular clouds and nearby stars. Richard Muller proposed that either a red dwarf or a brown dwarf passes through this region every 26 million years, indirectly causing extinction events on Earth. It begins over a thousand AU from the heliopause. Sedna is thought to be from, for 10 points, what region of the Solar System beyond the Kuiper belt, the proposed source of long-period comets?
ANSWER: Oort cloud [or Öpik–Oort cloud; prompt on the Solar System or our Solar System] &lt;Other Science (Astronomy)&gt;

295.
ID: 159290  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet C (MSU A, NYU B, UCLA A, and Virginia A) | Number: 13
TOSSUP: The expression of Ngn3 triggers the commitment of this organ’s namesake progenitor cells. This organ develops from the fusion of a dorsal and ventral bud, whose formation is controlled by Pdx1. Streptozocin (“strepto-ZO-sin”) selectively destroys a population of cells in this organ, which are also targeted by GAD65 and GAD67 antibodies. Solid pseudopapillary tumors of this organ mostly affect young women. CA19-9 is a tumor marker for this organ. Cancer of this organ sometimes presents with painless jaundice and is resected by the Whipple procedure. This organ secretes zymogens through the ampulla of Vater in response to cholecystokinin (“KO-luh-SIS-toh-KYE-nin”). This organ has both exocrine and endocrine portions; its endocrine portion contains the islets of Langerhans. For 10 points, name this organ that uses glucagon and insulin to control blood sugar levels.
ANSWER: pancreas &lt;Biology&gt;

296.
ID: 159451  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet K (Northwestern A, Oregon, Maryland A, and Auburn A) | Number: 6
TOSSUP: Augustin Daly’s play Under the Gaslight is best remembered for a scene in which a character is nearly killed by one of these vehicles. The first chapter of Wise Blood was expanded from a Flannery O’Connor story titled for one of these vehicles. In a play named after these vehicles, Risa, who has mutilated her own legs with a razor, works at a restaurant run by Memphis Lee, whose clientele includes characters like Hambone and Holloway. That play from August Wilson’s Pittsburgh Cycle is named for two of these vehicles. One of these vehicles titles a Patricia Highsmith novel about the architect Guy Haines and the playboy Charles Anthony Bruno. In Atlas Shrugged, Dagny Taggart works for a company that deals with these vehicles. For 10 points, name these vehicles, one of which is the subject of Chris Van Allsburg’s The Polar Express.
ANSWER: trains [accept equivalents, such as locomotives] (Under the Gaslight is the origin of the trope where a villain ties someone to the railroad tracks.) &lt;American Literature&gt;

297.
ID: 159284  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet C (MSU A, NYU B, UCLA A, and Virginia A) | Number: 7
TOSSUP: Paul Willis analyzed how “lads” at Hammertown Boys ultimately valued certain types of these entities, a process he called “self-damnation.” A specific class of these things fosters “emotive dissonance” by requiring adherence to “feeling rules” in order to perform them, according to a book by Arlie Hochschild (“HOCK-child”). One work argues that the transition to viewing these things as “an absolute end” in themselves, or a beruf (“buh-ROOF”), occurred alongside the “rationalization” of the world. Barbara Ehrenreich wrote about her experience of these things in three states in her book Nickel and Dimed, which detailed why Americans often need to have more than one of them. For 10 points, name these societal roles that often require “emotional labor” when they’re part of the service industry.
ANSWER: jobs [accept equivalents like occupations, employments, vocations work placements, labor, or crafts; accept more detailed answers, such as factory jobs or minimum-wage jobs; accept Learning to Labor] &lt;Social Science&gt;

298.
ID: 159317  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet D (NYU A, Rutgers A, Michigan A, and Oxford A) | Number: 19
TOSSUP: The most famous work of Benzion Netanyahu (“ben-tsee-YONE neh-tahn-YAH-hoo”) traces the origins of an institution that came about in this century. The inconclusive Battle of Toro in this century was propagandistically spun as revenge for the earlier Battle of Aljubarrota (“all-zhoo-buh-RO-tuh”). Two kingdoms were united in this century with a prenuptial agreement that had the motto Tanto monta, monta tanto, or “they amount to the same, the same they amount to.” Charles VIII’s invasion of Italy in this century led to the formation of the League of Venice opposing France. The Nasrid Dynasty ended in this century with the abdication of its last ruler, Boabdil. The Alhambra Decree that expelled all Jews from the kingdoms of Aragon and Castile was issued in this century. For 10 points, name this century in which Ferdinand and Isabella ended the Reconquista (“ray-con-KEE-stah”) in Spain.
ANSWER: 1400s [or the 15th century; accept Origins of the Inquisition in Fifteenth Century Spain] &lt;European History&gt;

299.
ID: 159292  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Audiovisual
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet C (MSU A, NYU B, UCLA A, and Virginia A) | Number: 15
TOSSUP: An opera by this composer cast the castrato Giambattista as the knight Armando. In one of this composer’s operas, a scandalous ballet in the third act, meant to showcase its venue’s new gas lighting, starred Marie Taglioni as the Abbess Helena. This composer, whose final Italian-language opera was Il crociato in Egitto (“eel kroh-CHA-toh een ay-JEET-toh”), wrote an opera in which the explorer Vasco da Gama sings “O paradis” (“oh pah-rah-DEE”) on Selika’s island. An opera by this composer opens with a short prelude set to Martin Luther’s “Ein feste Burg” (“yne FESS-tuh BOORK”). The libretto for this composer’s opera L’étoile du nord (“lay-TWALL doo NOR”) was written by the inventor of the well-made play, Eugène Scribe (“oo-zhen screeb”). This composer wrote a “Ballet of the Nuns” as well as an opera in which Valentine and her lover Raoul, a member of the title religious group, are killed in the St. Bartholomew’s Day Massacre. For 10 points, name this composer of grand operas such as Robert le Diable (“ro-BAIR luh dee-AH-bluh”) and Les Huguenots (“lay oog-NOH”).
ANSWER: Giacomo Meyerbeer [or Jacob Liebmann Beer] &lt;Other Arts&gt;

300.
ID: 159299  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet D (NYU A, Rutgers A, Michigan A, and Oxford A) | Number: 1
TOSSUP: This artist imitated Henry Rowland’s handwriting in creating a scientific-formula-filled frame for a portrait he painted of Rowland. Michael Fried (“freed”) argued that this painter’s work posed a link between “writing” and “disfiguration,” noting similarities in this man’s depiction of his father in The Writing Master and his portrayal of a different title figure using a “long, thin, pencillike instrument.” This artist showed both himself and the clerk Franklin West writing in the background of a painting in which a seated woman shields her face from an action being carried out by four men. In that painting by this man, the title figure holds a bloody scalpel while lecturing about an ongoing leg operation at the Jefferson Medical College. For 10 points, name this American painter of The Gross Clinic.
ANSWER: Thomas Eakins (“AY-kins”) [or Thomas Cowperthwait Eakins] &lt;Painting&gt;

301.
ID: 159295  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet C (MSU A, NYU B, UCLA A, and Virginia A) | Number: 18
TOSSUP: One donor of this ion is SMEAH, which is commonly sold as Red-Al. An unusual coordination compound contains nine of this ion bonded to rhenium. Adamazine is used to prepare the “inverse” version of a compound in which this ion is bonded to sodium; that compound is reacted with sulfonium halides to form ylides (“ILL-ides”) in the Corey–Chaykovsky reaction. A neopentyl group is used to cut down on a form of elimination in which this ion is eliminated beta to a metal center, resulting in a metal-alkene coordination bond. DIBAL donates this ion to acid chlorides to form aldehydes. Four of these ions bonded to aluminum, with a lithium counterion (“counter-ion”), form a powerful reducing agent. For 10 points, name this ion that is donated during reductions, with formula H-minus.
ANSWER: hydride [or H-minus until read; prompt on hydrogen ion] &lt;Chemistry&gt;

302.
ID: 159274  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Audiovisual
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet B (Wright State, Johns Hopkins A, and UNC A) | Number: 18
TOSSUP: A tumultuous interlude in Act 1 of this opera opens with a heavy E-flat downbeat in the timpani, followed by the lower woodwinds and strings playing eighth notes E-flat F-flat E-flat, then up to a half-note C-flat. After that interlude, a character sings that the stars “are drawing up the clouds of human grief” while others shelter in a pub called The Boar; that aria is “Now the Great Bear and Pleiades.” In this opera, a character sings the “Embroidery” Aria after Balstrode finds a ruined jersey that she recognizes as one that she had made for John. This opera’s libretto, written by Montagu Slater, was based on George Crabbe’s poem The Borough. Four Sea Interludes are often excerpted from this opera. For 10 points, name this opera in which the title fisherman is accused of killing his apprentices, composed by Benjamin Britten.
ANSWER: Peter Grimes &lt;Other Arts&gt;

303.
ID: 159288  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Trash | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet C (MSU A, NYU B, UCLA A, and Virginia A) | Number: 11
TOSSUP: This artist recorded the first LP to sell one million copies; that album by this man features seven songs written at least in part by Lord Burgess and concludes with a song that asserts “ever since the world began / woman was always teaching man.” This singer of “Man Smart (Woman Smarter)” appeared on an episode of The Muppet Show in which he sang the title spiritual of his album Turn the World Around. The Wendell Pierce-portrayed Hosea Williams leads a chorus of one of this man’s songs after it is announced that this man will be joining a march in the film Selma. That song by this man warns of “the deadly black tarantula” and mentions lifting “six foot, seven foot, eight foot bunch.” For 10 points, name this calypso singer who declared “Daylight come and me wan’ go home” in a folk song known alternately as “Day-O” and “The Banana Boat Song.”
ANSWER: Harry Belafonte [or Harold George Bellanfanti Jr.] &lt;Trash&gt;

304.
ID: 159305  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet D (NYU A, Rutgers A, Michigan A, and Oxford A) | Number: 7
TOSSUP: A reaction of this type uses lithium chloride and lead-4-acetate. Another reaction of this type begins by adding thiohydroxyamate, then uses a radical initiator on tributyltin hydride. This reaction can occur spontaneously, with some catalytic amounts of acid, when a ketone is present beta to a certain functional group via a pericyclic mechanism. After forming a silver salt, bromine and CCl4 (“C-C-L-4”) can affect this transformation. This transformation, which occurs in reactions named for Kochi, Barton, and Hunsdiecker, is also the final step of malonic ester synthesis. It doesn’t involve amine groups, but a PLP cofactor is used in enzymes that catalyze this reaction, like transforming L-DOPA to dopamine, glutamic acid to GABA (“GAB-uh”), and histidine to histamine. For 10 points, name this type of reaction in which CO2 is removed.
ANSWER: decarboxylation &lt;Chemistry&gt;

305.
ID: 159302  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet D (NYU A, Rutgers A, Michigan A, and Oxford A) | Number: 4
TOSSUP: These non-protein structures name an enzyme that acts on accessible areas of chromatin in Howard Chang’s ATAC-seq (“attack-seek”) method. Linking a reporter to one of these structures creates an enhancer trap. The IR/DR sequence of a type of these structures belongs to their Tc1/mariner class and binds to an enzyme that was synthetically resurrected from salmonids called Sleeping Beauty. These structures cause hybrid dysgenesis in the progeny of female lab flies and wild males, which have a type of these structures that is often used for insertional mutagenesis called the P element. They include the non-autonomous group SINEs, which are an example of their “retro” form. The first discovered examples of them were the Ac/Ds system discovered in maize. For 10 points, name these sequences characterized by Barbara McClintock that can “jump” around a genome.
ANSWER: transposons [or transposable elements; or jumping genes; or mobile genetic elements; or retroelements] &lt;Biology&gt;

306.
ID: 159253  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet A (Penn State A, McGill A, Florida A, and Rutgers B) | Number: 18
TOSSUP: UC Berkeley professor Otto Maenchen-Helfen documented many artifacts of these people, including 19 different types of bronze cauldrons. A leader of these people prepared a pyre of saddles on which he planned to self-immolate to avoid capture. These people have an unclear relationship to the similarly-named Central Asian people who invaded India around the turn of the 6th century AD, weakening the Gupta Empire. The Hephthalites are sometimes called the “white” variety of these people. In 1900, Wilhelm II asked German troops who were leaving to fight in the Boxer Rebellion to be as ruthless as these people in a speech often named after them. Pope Leo I persuaded these people to not sack Rome in 452 AD. For 10 points, identify this ethnic group once led by Attila.
ANSWER: the Huns [accept White Huns; accept Huna people; accept “Hun speech”] (The third sentence refers to the Xiongnu.) &lt;European History&gt;

307.
ID: 159325  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History Classical
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet E (Penn State B, Berkeley A, and Harvard A) | Number: 6
TOSSUP: Alcaeus of Messene (“meh-SEE-nee”) wrote a series of epigrams about a ruler from this kingdom who supposedly stole 15,000 shields during his sacking of Thermum. During a siege of Rhodes, a future ruler of this kingdom built a 130-by-65-foot movable tower called the Helepolis, or “Taker of Cities.” Titus Quinctius Flamininus “granted” Greece its freedom from the domination of this kingdom at the Isthmian Games. A ruler of this kingdom allied with Hannibal during the Second Punic War and was defeated by Rome at the Battle of Cynoscephalae. This kingdom was founded by the Argead (“ar-JEE-id”) dynasty but was ruled by the Antigonid dynasty until its downfall. This kingdom’s sarissa-armed phalanxes allowed it to unite Greece. For 10 points, name this kingdom that was ruled by Philip II and Alexander the Great.
ANSWER: Macedonia &lt;Ancient History&gt;

308.
ID: 159320  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature European
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet E (Penn State B, Berkeley A, and Harvard A) | Number: 1
TOSSUP: This poet strikingly ended a poem about the color of the sky with the line “I am haunted. Azure! Azure! Azure! Azure!” This poet used the image of “pure nails raised to consecrate their onyx” to open the “Sonnet in X,” six of whose lines end with the sound -yx (“eeks”). A poem by this author describes “dried leaves” that “cling in vain against the marble of” the author it commemorates. This author of “The Tomb of Charles Baudelaire” wrote a poem which asserts that “all Thought emits” one of the title events and is typeset with varying font and spacing. He wrote a poem whose mythical speaker declares “these nymphs, I would perpetuate them.” For 10 points, name this Symbolist poet of “A Throw of the Dice Will Never Abolish Chance” who inspired a symphonic poem by Claude Debussy with his “The Afternoon of a Faun.”
ANSWER: Stéphane Mallarmé [or Étienne Mallarmé] &lt;European Literature&gt;

309.
ID: 159321  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet E (Penn State B, Berkeley A, and Harvard A) | Number: 2
TOSSUP: Bassik et al. conducted a magnetic genome-wide CRISPR (“crisper”) that identified NHLRC2 as a key regulator of this process. This process occurs to red blood cells in HLH, which can be secondary to adult-onset Still’s disease. Activation of the CR3 receptor causes this process. This process is inhibited by clumping factor A and streptococcal M protein. C3b and other opsonins can trigger this process, which also occurs to the cell fragments that remain after apoptosis. Kupffer cells and microglia both use this process, which can be used to generate peptides that are displayed on MHC class II molecules by antigen-presenting cells. For 10 points, name this cell process conducted by macrophages, in which cells engulf foreign bodies.
ANSWER: phagocytosis [prompt on endocytosis] &lt;Biology&gt;

310.
ID: 159322  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Religion | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet E (Penn State B, Berkeley A, and Harvard A) | Number: 3
TOSSUP: An account of a classics professor declaring this work to be a “sealed book” is found in No Man Knows My History, a critical biography of this work’s author by Fawn Brodie. B. H. Roberts wrote a seminal textual analysis that discusses several similarities between the book View of the Hebrews and this work, which makes repeated use of the phrase “and it came to pass.” Interpreters of this work debate a “limited geography model” which proposes that most of its events took place in Mesoamerica. A section of this work that went missing under the watch of Martin Harris is known as the “lost 116 pages” and contains the entire story of Lehi (“LEE-hye”). According to its author, this work was translated from “Reformed Egyptian” with the assistance of the angel Moroni (“moh-ROH-nye”). For 10 points, name this sacred text that was allegedly transcribed from gold plates by Joseph Smith.
ANSWER: The Book of Mormon &lt;Religion&gt;

311.
ID: 159331  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Mythology | Subcategory: Mythology Indian
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet E (Penn State B, Berkeley A, and Harvard A) | Number: 12
TOSSUP: In one story, the skin of one of these deities turns black after an encounter with a frenzied Shiva, who had just been shot by one of Kama’s magic arrows. A female one of these deities is honored along with her brother in the festival of Bhai-Dooj. That god, a daughter of the sun god Surya, is a twin of Yama. One of these deities was called to earth after the sixty thousand sons of Sagar were killed by the sage Kapila. After drowning the first seven of her children with Shantanu, that deity gave birth to a personification of Dyaus named Bhishma. One of these gods was held within the hair of Shiva after threatening to destroy the world and was created from the sweat of Vishnu’s feet. One of these gods is often depicted riding her mount Makara, who is half mammal and half fish. For 10 points, name these gods, who embody features like the Yamuna and the Ganges.
ANSWER: river gods [or water gods; accept equivalents for “river” or “water”; prompt on Hindu gods] &lt;Mythology&gt;

312.
ID: 159329  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Trash | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet E (Penn State B, Berkeley A, and Harvard A) | Number: 10
TOSSUP: A film named after this state includes a recurring image of a halibut flying through the air. A poor rancher in this state played by Van Heflin accepts the dangerous job of delivering the outlaw Ben Wade to the authorities in a western directed by Delmer Daves. This state’s “dream” titles Emir Kusturica’s only film set in America. A valley on this state’s northern border was used as the backdrop for Stagecoach and many other John Ford westerns. A furniture salesman who shares his name with this state is the father of quintuplets, one of whom is kidnapped by Hi and Ed in a Coen brothers comedy starring Holly Hunter and Nicolas Cage. In a film that ends in this state, Susan Sarandon’s character shoots a man who is attempting to rape her Geena Davis-portrayed friend. For 10 points, Thelma &amp; Louise ends with the title characters driving off the edge of the Grand Canyon in what state?
ANSWER: Arizona [accept Arizona Territory] (The Delmer Daves western is 3:10 to Yuma.) &lt;Other Arts&gt;

313.
ID: 159347  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Religion | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet F (Yale A, Gettysburg A, and Iowa) | Number: 7
TOSSUP: This figure is deemed a watchman for the people of Israel who will be held responsible if a wicked person dies for their sins. A conflict described by this man includes the destruction of a chief prince of Meshech and Tubal. A building described by this man includes a river flowing from its south side and carvings of cherubim on the walls. This Biblical figure cuts his hair into three parts, burning one part and scattering another to the wind. He also envisions the war of Gog and Magog against the people of God. This figure hears the words “I will attach tendons to you and make flesh come upon you” while wandering in the valley of dry bones. Merkabah mysticism was inspired by this man’s account of four animals accompanied by “wheels within wheels.” For 10 points, name this major prophet whose namesake book begins with a vision of the chariot of God.
ANSWER: Ezekiel [or Yehezkel] &lt;Religion&gt;

314.
ID: 159349  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature World
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet F (Yale A, Gettysburg A, and Iowa) | Number: 9
TOSSUP: This story’s opening paragraph, which describes bushes bowing down “as if they had been visited by archangels,” begins by noting “And after all the weather was ideal.” Some characters from this story had previously appeared in its author’s story “Her First Ball.” In this story, a girl named Jose tests a piano by playing the song “This Life Is Weary.” In this story, Godber’s man arrives to deliver cream puffs. A character in this story cannot finish her question beginning “Isn’t life–” before her brother replies “Isn’t it, darling?” The protagonist of this story directs the placement of a marquee at its beginning, before learning of the death of Mr. Scott and canceling this story’s title event. For 10 points, name this short story in which Laura Sheridan prepares for a celebration, written by Katherine Mansfield.
ANSWER: “The Garden Party” &lt;World Literature&gt;

315.
ID: 159360  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Math
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet F (Yale A, Gettysburg A, and Iowa) | Number: 20
TOSSUP: Yoshua Bengio (“YOSH-oo-ah BEN-jee-oh”) et al. argued that a prevalence of points with this property surrounded by high error plateaus present the main challenge to high-dimensional optimization, and these points are a specific case of points where functions can be reparameterized using Morse’s lemma. Deforming a contour integral toward one of these points is an approximation method called the method of steepest descent, which is alternately named for these points. The Hessian matrix has both positive and negative eigenvalues at these points that can be identified by the second derivative test. These points are critical points but not local extrema. For 10 points, name these points where a multivariable function curves up and down in different directions, named for resembling a piece of riding equipment.
ANSWER: saddle points [accept minimax point; prompt on stationary points or (non-degenerate) critical points; do not accept or prompt on “minimum” or “maximum” or “extremum”] &lt;Other Science (Math)&gt;

316.
ID: 159359  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet F (Yale A, Gettysburg A, and Iowa) | Number: 19
TOSSUP: A poet from this state told of “something unsaid, a phone off the hook” in the last stanza of a poem which declares that “suicides have a special language.” A poet from this state wrote that “Beauty is its own excuse for being” in a poem which muses that “the self-same Power that brought me here brought you.” That poem is subtitled “On Being Asked, Whence Is the Flower?” and is called “The Rhodora.” A poem set in this state begins by describing “a Sahara of snow” where an aquarium stands. A monument in this state “sticks like a fishbone in the city’s throat” in Robert Lowell’s “For the Union Dead.” In another poem set in this state, “Hardly a man is now alive who remembers the famous day and year” of the title event, which included the direction “one if by land, two if by sea.” For 10 points, name this home state of Ralph Waldo Emerson, the setting of “Paul Revere’s Ride.”
ANSWER: Massachusetts (The poem in the first sentence is Anne Sexton’s “Wanting to Die.”) &lt;American Literature&gt;

317.
ID: 159362  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Religion | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet G (Cambridge A, Carleton College A, and Penn A) | Number: 1
TOSSUP: A series of steps of knowledge of this deity begins with the “realm of righteous action” and ends with the “realm of truth.” The “Five Thrones” are examples of temples to this deity, which host continuous scripture recitation sessions that can last longer than 2 days each. The practice of naam japo consists of meditation on the names of this deity, and devotion to this deity can be hindered by the “Five Thieves.” A dedication to the “holy mouth of the tenth king” opens a prayer to this deity, which is said at the beginning of an Amrit Sanchar ceremony. A verse dedicated to this deity, the Mul Mantar, opens with the phrase “Ik Onkar” (“ick OWN-car”), which refers to the oneness of this deity. For 10 points, name this deity, the subject of many hymns in the Adi Granth.
ANSWER: God [accept any answers indicating the deity worshipped in Sikhism; accept Waheguru; prompt on Ik Onkar until read] &lt;Religion&gt;

318.
ID: 159368  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Philosophy | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet G (Cambridge A, Carleton College A, and Penn A) | Number: 7
TOSSUP: In an article that rejects the in absentia provision of one of these things for the first person to be born in the 22nd century, Donald Kaplan argued that the “vivid” type of these things helps fill in people’s “inner stories.” One philosopher argued that these things are passed along via a causal chain following an “initial baptism” in proposing an alternative to the “descriptivist” theory of them. Gottlob Frege (“FRAY-guh”) used the example of the morning star and the evening star to distinguish between the sense and reference of these things in his so-called “puzzle.” These things are “rigid designators” when they refer to the same object in every possible world in which the object exists, according to a book by Saul Kripke whose title pairs the process of generating them with “necessity.” For 10 points, identify these proper nouns, examples of which include “Sherlock Holmes.”
ANSWER: names [accept Naming and Necessity] &lt;Philosophy&gt;

319.
ID: 159300  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet D (NYU A, Rutgers A, Michigan A, and Oxford A) | Number: 2
TOSSUP: A poem titled for this place states “I hail the superhuman” and calls this place “death-in-life and life-in-death” and is set at night when some “drunken soldiery are abed.” The speaker of another poem titled for this place promises “Once out of nature I shall never take my bodily form from any natural thing,” imagining that instead he might “set upon a golden bough” and sing “of what is past, or passing, or to come.” The speaker of that poem titled for this place laments how his heart is “fastened to a dying animal” and “knows not what it is.” A poem titled for this place uses the image of “a tattered coat upon a stick” after saying that “an aged man is but a paltry thing.” That poem titled for this place begins “That is no country for old men.” For 10 points, W. B. Yeats (“yates”) wrote a poem titled “Sailing to” what ancient city?
ANSWER: Byzantium [accept “Sailing to Byzantium”] &lt;British Literature&gt;

320.
ID: 159450  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet K (Northwestern A, Oregon, Maryland A, and Auburn A) | Number: 5
TOSSUP: Description acceptable. UCLA houses a database of examples of this phenomenon named for a linguist who wrote an article titled for their “non-anomalous nature.” One work argues that the formation of “solutions” via this phenomenon is similar to dreaming in that it involves a process of “condensation.” Victoria Fromkin is best-known for studying this phenomenon, specific forms of which include “anticipation” and “blends.” Another form of this phenomenon often treated through practice with “minimal pairs” is classified as “residual” when it persists beyond childhood. The English translation of Freud’s The Psychopathology of Everyday Life introduced the term parapraxis to describe instances of this phenomenon caused by the unconscious. For 10 points, name this phenomenon, one example of which is uttering “she shanty” rather than “sea shanty.”
ANSWER: speech errors [accept misspeaking, speech impediment, slip of the tongue, lapsus linguae, Freudian slip, as well as more descriptive answers such as saying the wrong word; accept parapraxis until read; anti-prompt on specific speech impediments, such as lisps] &lt;Social Science&gt;

321.
ID: 159395  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Geography | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet H (Cambridge B, Berkeley B, Columbia B, and Cornell) | Number: 13
TOSSUP: The world’s second-largest aquarium tank is in this city, where an oblong-shaped bright yellow Ferris wheel depicting a deity holding a penguin was recently renovated by the retail chain Don Quijote. One of this city’s mascots is a mechanical drum-playing clown named after this city’s culture of “eat till you drop,” while others include a giant mechanical crab and a running man on a Glico billboard. A crowd in this city seeking a Randy Bass lookalike chose a Colonel Sanders statue to throw into a river, leading to a curse on the Hanshin Tigers. This city’s tourist destinations include the entertainment district Dōtonbori and a castle owned by the Toyotomi clan that was besieged by Ieyasu Tokugawa. The Keihanshin metropolitan area is formed by Kobe, Kyoto, and, for 10 points, what city in the Kansai region, which after Tokyo and Yokohama is the third most populous in Japan?
ANSWER: Osaka [or Osaka-shi] &lt;Geography&gt;

322.
ID: 159391  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet H (Cambridge B, Berkeley B, Columbia B, and Cornell) | Number: 9
TOSSUP: The neovascular form of this disease can be exacerbated by an offset in VEGF (“vej-F”) to PEDF ratios. Polymorphisms in LOXL1 are linked to the pseudoexfoliation type of this disease by causing increased cross-linking between collagen and elastin fibers. In 2014, Japan approved ripasudil, a Rho kinase inhibitor, for treating this disease, which is also treated by the prostaglandin analogue latanoprost and carbonic anhydrase inhibitor dorzolamide. The most common operation for this disease involves removing parts of the Schlemm’s canal and trabecular meshwork to access the anterior chamber. An increased cup-to-disc ratio can indicate the onset of this disease, which results in high intraocular pressure due to poor drainage of aqueous humor. Classified as open- or closed-angle, for 10 points, name this eye disease, the second-leading cause of blindness worldwide.
ANSWER: glaucoma &lt;Biology&gt;

323.
ID: 159399  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet H (Cambridge B, Berkeley B, Columbia B, and Cornell) | Number: 17
TOSSUP: The Schwinger limit is the value for this quantity where pair production introduces nonlinearities. The uniqueness of this quantity for a given source configuration can be proved by integrating the square of the difference of two solutions for this quantity over a volume. The polarization of a linear medium is proportional to this quantity. In statics, the curl of this quantity is zero and its normal component is discontinuous across a surface charge. This quantity vanishes inside conductors when there is no time dependence. This quantity falls off as one over r-cubed for a dipole. This quantity can be computed by taking the gradient of the scalar potential, and it is sourced by the charge density in Gauss’s law. For 10 points, name this quantity that gives the Coulomb force when multiplied by charge.
ANSWER: electric field [or E-field] &lt;Physics&gt;

324.
ID: 159400  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Philosophy | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet H (Cambridge B, Berkeley B, Columbia B, and Cornell) | Number: 18
TOSSUP: Gayatri Spivak (“GUY-uh-tree SPIV-uk”) placed this philosopher’s name inside quotation marks when analyzing his claim that the “monotony” of the Bhagavad Gita reflects the static nature of India. Susan Buck-Morss argues that this thinker’s development of a certain concept was influenced by reading accounts of the ongoing Haitian Revolution in journals such as Minerva. This philosopher described a figure who experiences “absolute negativity” via fear before engaging in a “rediscovery of himself by himself” through labor in a passage titled for the “independence and dependence of self-consciousness.” That passage, which describes how two figures recognize each other through a “struggle to the death,” is often described in translation as this thinker’s “master–slave dialectic.” For 10 points, name this German author of The Phenomenology of Spirit.
ANSWER: Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel (“HEY-gull”) [accept “Hegel and Haiti”] (The concept Buck-Morss is talking about is the master-slave dialectic, not Hegel’s description of “Minerva’s owl” in the Philosophy of Right.) &lt;Philosophy&gt;

325.
ID: 159404  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet I (OSU A, Rice A, and Yale B) | Number: 1
TOSSUP: A narrative poem by this author ends with a woman perceiving that a man’s soul is made of “jasper first,” then sapphire, chalcedony (“cal-SED-uh-nee”), and finally amethyst. A poem by this author describes how a girl named Alice dies and is given a grave “shapen like a snowball.” The speaker describes “bartering curl for curl” in a poem by this author beginning “The soul’s Rialto has its merchandise.” The speaker reminisces about “the name I used to run at, when a child” in a poem by this author that tells the addressee to “call me by my pet-name!” This author of “The Cry of the Children” and Aurora Leigh wrote about “the depth and breadth and height my soul can reach” in a poem that asks “How do I love thee? Let me count the ways.” For 10 points, name this poet who wrote about her love for her husband Robert in Sonnets from the Portuguese.
ANSWER: Elizabeth Barrett Browning [prompt on Browning] &lt;British Literature&gt;

326.
ID: 159409  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History Other
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet I (OSU A, Rice A, and Yale B) | Number: 6
TOSSUP: This industry was built up in the Balkans by Durad Crnojević (“tser-NOY-uh-vitch”), the Lord of Zeta. James IV gave Walter Chepman and Androw Myllar a monopoly of this industry in Scotland. In Paris, mistreated apprentices in this industry rebelled against their poor living conditions by killing their masters’ cats in the so-called “Great Cat Massacre.” A pioneer of this industry in Venice mass-produced objects called enchiridia (“en-kai-RID-ee-uh”). Benedict Anderson combined the name of this industry with “capitalism” in his book Imagined Communities. This industry was introduced to England by William Caxton. This industry’s “Revolution” started after a goldsmith from Mainz (“MINE-ts”) started using movable type. For 10 points, Johannes Gutenberg was a pioneer of what industry that mass-produces books?
ANSWER: printing industry [or publishing industry; accept printing press capitalism; accept bookmaking industry until “books”] &lt;European History&gt;

327.
ID: 159378  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet G (Cambridge A, Carleton College A, and Penn A) | Number: 17
TOSSUP: Eric Wolf argues that the increasing presence of “fog coverings” in this practice reflected the uniform quantitative standards spread by capitalism. Helen Codere noted that this practice only became a “central and all-encompassing institution” after the founding of Fort Rupert. One work describes how an individual who failed to engage in this practice was known for his “rotten face,” and claims that “one has no right… to refuse” this practice. Large, flattened pieces of copper were sometimes broken or destroyed as part of this practice, which, according to one work, gave expression to a variety of social institutions as a “total social fact” or “total prestation.” Rich members of the Haida (“HIGH-duh”) and Tlingit (“KLING-it”) continue to lead their kin groups in this practice, which was analyzed in Marcel Mauss’s The Gift. For 10 points, name this reciprocal gifting ceremony common to cultures of the Pacific Northwest.
ANSWER: potlatch [prompt on gifting or similar answers] &lt;Social Science&gt;

328.
ID: 159420  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet I (OSU A, Rice A, and Yale B) | Number: 17
TOSSUP: Samples in this technique are commonly stored in “pucks,” which can be loaded using robots like ACTOR. Hauptman and Karle developed “direct methods” for this technique by solving the Sayre equation. The ARP/wARP suite in CCP4 is used for automated refinement in this technique. One value computed in this technique is also computed on a subset of the data to obtain its “free” form; that is the R-factor. In this technique, multiple isomorphous replacement or anomalous dispersion methods can help solve the phase problem. Incident radiation in this technique has a similar wavelength to atomic spacings, which allows the use of Bragg’s law. This technique was used to produce photo 51 by Rosalind Franklin, who determined the structure of DNA with it. For 10 points, name this technique that uses high-energy radiation to solve the structure of macromolecules.
ANSWER: X-ray crystallography [or X-ray diffraction; or XRD; prompt on crystallography or diffraction] &lt;Chemistry&gt;

329.
ID: 159307  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet D (NYU A, Rutgers A, Michigan A, and Oxford A) | Number: 9
TOSSUP: A slow, bittersweet tenor aria opens with this instrument, over B-flat minor arpeggios, playing the steady notes F, down to five B-flats, followed by a fast A and C. That aria is sung by a character who, after spending all of his money to woo a woman, has finally seen his love requited. After a somber introduction in the clarinet and strings in Tchaikovsky’s Symphony No. 5, this instrument and the clarinet play the first main theme. This instrument introduces the melody of Donizetti’s “Una furtiva lagrima.” Accompanied by harp and muted strings, this instrument also introduces the main melody of the Berceuse from The Firebird. This instrument represents the grandfather in Peter and the Wolf and opens with a high solo in Stravinsky’s Rite of Spring. For 10 points, name this low-pitched double-reed woodwind instrument.
ANSWER: bassoon [accept fagotto; do not accept “contrabassoon”] &lt;Music&gt;

330.
ID: 159306  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet D (NYU A, Rutgers A, Michigan A, and Oxford A) | Number: 8
TOSSUP: This ruler created a special position called the Ober-procurator intended to act as the “sovereign’s eye” between him and the Senate. A revolt against this ruler was put down with the help of Scotsman Patrick Gordon, whose innovation of “moveable ramparts” helped this ruler seize Azov. This ruler mocked his country’s church by founding a club that he called the All-Drunken Synod of Fools and Jesters. This tsar replaced the existing mestnichestvo (“m’YEST-nee-chist-vuh”) system by creating a fourteen-rank hierarchy for military and civil services called the Table of Ranks. An equestrian statue of this tsar stands in Senate Square in a city that he intended as a “window to the west” after its site was captured from Sweden in the Great Northern War. For 10 points, name this Westernizing tsar who founded Russia’s second-largest city after Moscow.
ANSWER: Peter the Great [or Peter I; prompt on Peter] &lt;European History&gt;

331.
ID: 159462  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Religion | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet K (Northwestern A, Oregon, Maryland A, and Auburn A) | Number: 17
TOSSUP: A series of prayers performed the Saturday before this holiday includes the recital of pizmonim (“peez-mo-NEEM”) as well as verses beginning with the phrase “Shema koleinu” (“sh’MAH ko-LAY-noo”) or “Hear our voice.” Those prayers spoken prior to this holiday end with the Ashamnu (“ah-SHAHM-noo”) confession and are collectively called the Selichot (“slee-KHOTE”). A verse from Micah is often read while casting pieces of bread into water in the tashlikh (“TAHSH-leekh”) ceremony, which is usually performed on this holiday. A number of sects believe that this holiday’s current name is due to corruption from the Babylonian captivity and instead refer to it as Yom Teruah (“yohm troo-AH”). Participants in this holiday eat apples and honey to celebrate the beginning of Tishrei (“teesh-RAY”). For 10 points, name this first of the High Holy Days, which marks the Jewish New Year.
ANSWER: Rosh Hashanah [accept Yom Teruah until read; prompt on High Holy Days] &lt;Religion&gt;

332.
ID: 159033  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 05 | Number: 20
TOSSUP: George Cœdès (“say-DESS”) created an 8-volume book of transcriptions from this empire’s ruins while working for the EFEO. Roland Fletcher of the University of Sydney has used remote sensing technologies to rediscover canals once built by this empire. This empire’s customs were recorded by the Chinese diplomat Zhōu Dáguān (“joe da-gwen”), who also described its artificial lakes called (*) barays (“ba-RYES”). This empire’s capital contained a Buddhist temple called Bayon (“by-YOHN”) with numerous depictions of its builder Jayavarman VII as Avalokiteshvara (“uh-vuh-loh-kee-TAYSH-vuh-ruh”). Another temple complex in the same capital has five towers symbolizing the peaks of Mount Meru, and was built by this empire’s ruler Suryavarman II. For 10 points, name this Southeast Asian empire that had its capital at Angkor.
ANSWER: Khmer Empire [accept Cambodian Empire; accept Angkor empire until “Angkor” is read] &lt;AE, World History&gt; Bonuses

333.
ID: 159035  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Other
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 06 | Number: 2
TOSSUP: The architect of a government building in this country allegedly threw some twigs and leaves in front of its sponsors to describe its “organic” theme and modeled some of its windows on a famous portrait of a “skating minister” from this country. As he died during its construction, Catalan architect Enric Miralles (“un-REEK mee-RALL-yuss”) could not see his design for this country’s Parliament building realized. An architect from this country designed the Willow Tearooms and the (*) high-backed Argyle chair in the Art Nouveau style. In June 2018, the Charles Rennie Mackintosh building at an art school in this country was decimated again by fire. William Bruce reconstructed Holyrood Palace, the official residence of the British monarch in this country. For 10 points, name this country home to Edinburgh Castle.
ANSWER: Scotland [prompt on United Kingdom or UK; prompt on Great Britain] &lt;AP, Other Arts&gt;

334.
ID: 159041  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature World
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 06 | Number: 8
TOSSUP: This story’s narrator remembers meeting an Englishman who spoke as well as Goethe (“GUR-tuh”) wrote. Upon seeing a bird fly above him, this story’s protagonist imagines it becoming an airplane and sending a “rain of bombs” under it before exclaiming “I must flee.” This story’s narrator recollects some advice about always turning left en route to the Ashgrove residence of a man who is killed because he shares his name with a French (*) town, as revealed in the story’s last paragraph. The “horse-faced” MI6 agent Richard Madden stalks this story’s narrator, whose Chinese ancestor wrote a complex novel that also serves as an infinite labyrinth. For 10 points, name this story in which the sinologist Stephen Albert is regrettably killed by Yu Tsun, written by Jorgé Luis Borges (“HOR-hay loo-EES BOR-hess”).
ANSWER: “The Garden of Forking Paths” [or “El jardín de senderos que se bifurcan”] &lt;AP, World/Other Literature&gt;

335.
ID: 159158  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Audiovisual
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 12 | Number: 5
TOSSUP: This composer’s music for a “ballet-pantomime” with choreography by Gasparo Angiolini has a 30th movement larghetto with grounded bass before a final movement “Dance of the Furies.” He’s not Strauss, but this composer of the ballet Don Juan used Philippe Quinault’s (“kee-NO’s”) libretto for Lully as the basis of the opera Armide (“ar-MEED”). This composer collaborated with the librettist (*) Ranieri de’ Calzabigi (“ron-YAIR-ee day kalt-sah-BEE-jee”) on three operas that do not make use of da capo arias or secco recatives as set out in the manifesto that was published with this composer’s opera Alceste. A reform opera by this composer contains an Act 2 ballet known as the “Dance of the Blessed Spirits.” For 10 points, name this German composer of the reform opera Orfeo ed Euridice.
ANSWER: Christoph Willibald Gluck &lt;AE, Other Arts&gt;

336.
ID: 159042  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 06 | Number: 9
TOSSUP: Joaquín Rodrigo based a 10-movement concerto for two guitars on a sad piece of this type ironically titled “Oh, my happy eyes.” Orlando Gibbons based a piece of this type about a silver swan on Jacques Arcadelt’s “Il bianco e dolce cigno” (“eel b’YAHN-ko ay DOLE-chay CHEEN-yo”). Vocalists overlap the word “ahi” (“AH-ee”) at the end of a piece of this type full of chromatic mediants from the last of six books of them written after leaving Ferrara and inspired by the composer’s adulterous wife titled (*) “Moro, lasso.” Giovanni Artusi criticized the composer of pieces of this type such as “Cruda Amarilli” for his monody-rich seconda pratica style. That composer divided his eighth book of these pieces into songs of war and songs of love. Many of these pieces by Carlo Gesualdo (“jezz-WALL-doh”) and Claudio Monteverdi have elaborate word painting. For 10 points, name these secular sung poems contrasted with motets.
ANSWER: madrigals &lt;CK, Classical Music&gt;

337.
ID: 159036  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 06 | Number: 3
TOSSUP: Removing eight hydrogen atoms from a passivated surface of this element creates an artificial version of an eight-membered aromatic ring, and surfaces of this element are often passivated with its nitride or titanium dioxide in industrial applications. A process for producing polycrystalline solids of this element starts with a trichloro- compound of this element and reacts it with hydrogen gas. This element is the basis for CMOS (“C-moss”) transistors produced via CVD. As a crystal, this element has an (*) indirect bandgap, making it ineffective for LEDs (“L-E-D’s”), though its amorphous form is used in photovoltaic cells. This element acts as an n-type semiconductor when doped with phosphorus and a p-type when doped with boron. For 10 points, name this element that is the basis for modern semiconductor technology.
ANSWER: silicon [or Si] &lt;GR, Chemistry&gt;

338.
ID: 159051  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 06 | Number: 18
TOSSUP: A festival that this monarch held on Pentecost to celebrate the knighting of his two eldest sons was likened to Aeneas’s wedding in Heinrich von Veldeke’s retelling of the Aeneid. According to legend, this monarch can be found sitting at a stone table with an overgrown beard in a cave on the mountain of Kyffhäuser (“KIFF-hoy-zuh”). This monarch hired the Four Doctors of Bologna to define his royal rights at the Diet of (*) Roncaglia (“ron-KALL-yuh”). This monarch’s forces seized the reformer Arnold of Brescia (“BREH-shuh”) and delivered him to the Roman Curia for execution. This monarch agreed to the Peace of Constance with the Lombard League after his defeat in the Battle of Legnano (“len-YAH-noh”). For 10 points, name this Holy Roman Emperor who drowned in the Saleph River during the Third Crusade, nicknamed after his red beard.
ANSWER: Frederick Barbarossa [or Frederick I; or Friedrich Barbarossa or Friedrich I; prompt on Barbarossa] &lt;AE, European History&gt;

339.
ID: 159050  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 06 | Number: 17
TOSSUP: One of this author’s characters feels a “more gentle universe, parallel to our own” while staring at a woman’s bindi. An essay that mainly criticizes this author imagines the punningly-named character Toby Awknotuby. The lesbian “Niece-of-Shame” and the seemingly prophetic letter-writer Horst Ibelgaufts appear in one novel by this writer. Michel is hurt after finding his wife’s birth control pills in a novel by this author, in which (*) Keisha changes her name to Natalie. James Wood coined the term “hysterical realism” to criticize one of this author’s novels, in which FATE and the Islamic fundamentalist group KEVIN plan to disrupt the FutureMouse conference. That novel begins with Archie Jones’s attempted suicide. For 10 points, name this contemporary British novelist of NW and White Teeth.
ANSWER: Zadie Smith &lt;VS, British Literature&gt;

340.
ID: 159159  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature World
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 12 | Number: 6
TOSSUP: In a novel by an author born in this country, the protagonist falls in love with a Midwestern social worker who calls him “Dickens” after fleeing Uganda, where he’d issued revolutionary pamphlets listing “Crimes Against the Country.” A form of poetry from this modern-day country traditionally features a surface meaning called the “wax” and a hidden “gold” meaning derived by wordplay; that form is called qene (“ken-AY”). The author of All Our Names and The Beautiful Things that Heaven Bears is from this country, whose (*) national epic describes the Ark being brought to this country after Queen Makeda sleeps with Solomon. The epic Kebra Nagast was written in the Ge’ez (“GHEE-ezz”) language in this modern-day country, where Dinaw Mengestu was born. For 10 points, Amharic is the traditional literary language of what East African country?
ANSWER: Ethiopia &lt;JB, World/Other Literature&gt;

341.
ID: 159157  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 12 | Number: 4
TOSSUP: An empire with its capital on this river was founded after Biton Coulibaly transformed his ton, or age group association, into a standing army of slaves called the ton djon. That capital on this river, Ségou, was later conquered by a Sufi from the Tijani order named Umar Tall, marking the victory of his Toucouleur (“too-koo-LURR”) Empire over the pagan Bambara. In the 1990s, the Movement for the Survival of the Ogoni People, or MOSOP, was founded by Ken (*) Saro-Wiwa to protest the exploitation of the oil resources of this river’s delta. The Djingareyber (“jin-gah-ray-bair”) Mosque and the University of Sankore were established by Mansa Musa in a city located near this river, Timbuktu. For 10 points, name this river that enters into the Gulf of Guinea, the namesake of two West African countries.
ANSWER: Niger River &lt;AE, World History&gt;

342.
ID: 159059  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature World
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 07 | Number: 6
TOSSUP: An author from this country described the four “Victim Positions” that its literary works display in a “thematic guide” to its literature titled Survival. A prop plane’s unexpected landing in an old fairgrounds opens a story from this country, “How I Met My Husband.” An author from this country developed theories of genres, myths, symbols, and modes in the four-essay collection Anatomy of Criticism. In a hugely-popular story that is quoted on this country’s (*) five-dollar note, a boy prays for moths to eat the title garment, which doesn’t display Maurice “The Rocket” Richard’s name. In a novel from this country, the Commander plays Scrabble with the narrator, Offred, in Gilead. For 10 points, name this home country of Roch Carrier, Northrop Frye, Alice Munro, and Margaret Atwood.
ANSWER: Canada &lt;AP, British Literature&gt;

343.
ID: 159154  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 12 | Number: 1
TOSSUP: A class of paradoxes concerning this connective motivated Anderson and Belnap’s development of relevance logic. A sentence that is equivalent to a formula in which it is embedded in this connective leads to triviality in Curry’s paradox. In Hilbert-style proof systems, formulae with these connectives can be proven using the deduction theorem. In normal modal logics, the box operator is closed under this connective according to Axiom K. In propositional logic, this is the main connective of a (*) vacuous truth. This connective is logically equivalent to its contrapositive, and, in a modus ponens argument, its consequent follows from its antecedent. For 10 points, name this logical connective, often symbolized by a right arrow, that corresponds to if–then statements.
ANSWER: material conditional [or material implication; or implies; or imply; accept if–then statement until read; accept P implies Q; accept if P then Q; prompt on P right arrow Q] &lt;CK, Philosophy&gt;

344.
ID: 159150  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Mythology | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 11 | Number: 17
TOSSUP: A king asked this god to live in his stomach as a blessing, but was tricked into liberating this god from his gut by a dancing bull. This god fashioned a weapon to destroy a group of demons whose forts could never be attacked individually. This god flung a strand of his hair into a fire to create a warrior that beheaded this god’s father-in-law, who was given the head of a goat after lamenting his failure to invite this god and his first (*) wife to a ritual. This god, who is served by the ganas (“GUN-uhs”), beheaded a guardian of his wife’s bedchambers, not realizing that the guardian was his son. This god incinerated Kāma by opening his third eye after Kāma tried to mesmerize this god into falling in love with his second wife, Pārvati (“PAR-vuh-tee”). For 10 points, name this father of Ganesha who serves as the Hindu destroyer god.
ANSWER: Shiva [or Śiva; or Rudra] &lt;AP, Mythology&gt;

345.
ID: 159155  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 12 | Number: 2
TOSSUP: Betaines, polyols, and amino acids are examples of “protectants” that cells use to prevent damage due to this phenomenon. Stresses due to this phenomenon can damage nerve cells in a disease alternately called CPM or this phenomenon’s namesake demyelination syndrome. Taurine and its transporting ATPase are used by cells in response to this phenomenon, and contractile vacuoles work to counter this phenomenon. This phenomenon is sometimes attributed to entropic forces, because there are more configurations when (*) solute concentrations are equalized. This phenomenon results in turgor pressure experienced by plant cells. The forced “reverse” form of this process is a method for water filtration. For 10 points, name this process of solvent moving across a semipermeable membrane.
ANSWER: osmosis [accept osmotic pressure until “reverse” is read] &lt;GR, Chemistry&gt;

346.
ID: 159151  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 11 | Number: 18
TOSSUP: A painting from this movement depicts a sundial casting its shadow on 9 p.m. behind a red dove with a white poppy in its mouth that flies toward a dying woman. A painter from this movement contrasted “Soul’s Beauty” and “Body’s Beauty” in the paintings Sibylla Palmifera and Lady Lilith. A woman in a red dress weaves a tapestry in front of a circular window in a work partially titled for the line “I Am (*) Half-Sick of Shadows,” which is one of the paintings of the Lady of Shalott made by John William Waterhouse. A frequent model for this movement, Elizabeth Siddal, caught a cold while laying in a bathtub to model for Ophelia. For 10 points, name this movement that included John Everett Millais and Dante Gabriel Rossetti, which emulated a style from before a certain Renaissance painter.
ANSWER: Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood [or Pre-Raphaelites; PRB] (The painting described in the second line is Beata Beatrix.) &lt;VS, Painting &amp; Sculpture&gt;

347.
ID: 159067  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature World
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 07 | Number: 14
TOSSUP: The narrator is introduced to this real-life author through his homosexual relationship with the fictitious critic Farewell in a novel that begins with the line “I am dying now, but I still have many things to say.” In a novel dedicated to this real-life author’s wife, a postman seeks him out on the Isla Negra to learn how to court Beatriz. This character in Antonio Skarmeta’s Burning Patience wrote “You will not return from these stone fastness” in a poem that urges (*) “Arise to birth with me, my brother.” The line “The memory of you emerges from the night around me” starts a poem by this author that also includes the repeated exclamation that “In you everything sank!” For 10 points, what poet who appears in Roberto Bolaño’s By Night in Chile himself wrote The Heights of Machu Picchu and Twenty-One Love Poems and A Song of Despair?
ANSWER: Pablo Neruda &lt;JH, World/Other Literature&gt;

348.
ID: 159160  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 12 | Number: 7
TOSSUP: In a technique developed by W. H. King, thin film deposition causes a solid with this property to change oscillation frequency, allowing for measurement of film mass density and deposition or sorption rate. Modulators also known as Bragg cells, used to modulate signals or induce Q-switching, rely on this phenomenon. The change in frequency for a material with this property is proportional to added mass and resonant frequency squared, according to the Sauerbrey equation. Materials with this property are used to raster the sample stage in (*) scanning electron microscopes and atomic force microscopes. Ultrasonic transducers are made from materials exhibiting this effect discovered by Jacques and Pierre Curie. For 10 points, name this electromechanical effect in which crystals such as quartz produce a voltage in response to mechanical stress.
ANSWER: piezoelectricity [or piezoelectric effect] &lt;GR, Physics&gt;

349.
ID: 159156  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 12 | Number: 3
TOSSUP: In one essay, this author argued that “mind and millinery” writing reinforced “the popular prejudice against the more solid education of women.” This author wrote a novella in which the revived corpse of a maid informs Latimer that his wife Bertha is trying to poison him. This author of “Silly Novels by Lady Writers” wrote a story in which the clergyman Mr. Gilfil falls in unrequited love with Tina Sarti. In another novel, (*) she wrote about Sir John Raffles who blackmails the banker and former purveyor of stolen Nicholas Bulstrode. In addition to The Lifted Veil and Scenes of Clerical Life, she wrote a novel that ends with Will Ladislaw announcing his marriage to Edward Casaubon’s wife. For 10 points, name this author who wrote about Dorothea Brooke in Middlemarch.
ANSWER: George Eliot [or Mary Anne Evans] &lt;CK, British Literature&gt;

350.
ID: 159023  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 05 | Number: 10
TOSSUP: After finding a signed copy of one of this author’s books, a French inspector asks him if T. S. Eliot is a “known” author and accuses him of murdering one of his own characters. A character created by this author moves to Paris to pursue his true desire of “loafing,” but ends up learning about Vedānta from Shri Ganesha in southern India. In that novel by this author, the protagonist’s ex-fiancée Isabel tempts the alcoholic Sophie into relapse. A novel by this author concerns the Vicar of (*) Blackstable’s nephew, who has unrequited love for a syphilitic waitress, but finally becomes a doctor and settles down with Sally. In that novel, Mildred’s admirer Philip is dismayed at his prayers’ failure to make his club foot vanish. For 10 points, name this author of The Razor’s Edge and Of Human Bondage.
ANSWER: William Somerset Maugham (“mawm”) &lt;AP, British Literature&gt;

351.
ID: 159146  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 11 | Number: 13
TOSSUP: The heme-containing enzyme APX binds to this substance as part of its activity decomposing hydrogen peroxide. GULO is required for the synthesis of this biomolecule. Though it was originally isolated from adrenal gland tissue samples, the first plant-based isolation of this biomolecule used paprika peppers. This biomolecule is theorized to promote hydroxyproline synthesis and is a cofactor in the synthesis of (*) collagen. A deficiency of this vitamin causes brown spots on the skin and bleeding from mucous membranes. Linus Pauling advocated for large doses of this vitamin and popularized its use as a cold remedy. For 10 points, scurvy is caused by a deficiency of what vitamin found in citrus fruits?
ANSWER: vitamin C [or ascorbic acid or ascorbate] &lt;GR, Biology&gt;

352.
ID: 159147  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Geography | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 11 | Number: 14
TOSSUP: Prisoners in this archipelago were forced to build a 300-foot-long rock wall now called the “Wall of Tears.” A pink lizard species and the lava cactus can be found on this archipelago’s highest peak, named after German scientist Theodor Wolf (“TEE-oh-dor VOLF”). The proliferation of goats in this archipelago contributed to the extinction of a species whose sole survivor, Lonesome George, died in 2012. This archipelago is governed from Puerto (*) Baquerizo Moreno (“ba-keh-REE-so mo-RAY-no”). Islands in this archipelago include Floreana and Isabela, which lies on the equator. Fauna native to these volcanic islands include some bird species whose beak shapes are cited as a classic example of adaptive radiation. For 10 points, name this set of Ecuadorian islands whose finches and tortoises were studied by Charles Darwin.
ANSWER: Galápagos Islands [or Islas Galápagos; or Archipiélago de Colón; or Columbus Archipelago] &lt;AP, Other&gt;

353.
ID: 159145  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 11 | Number: 12
TOSSUP: George Crumb drew on the frescoes in the Arena Chapel to compose a “little suite” for this time period, whose music inspired Ralph Vaughan Williams’s cantata Hodie (“HO-dee-ay”). The timpani unusually open a festive cantata written for this time period, Jauchzet, frohlocket! (“YOWKH-tsit FRO-lock-it”). Songs from this time inspired a “ceremony” composed by Benjamin Britten. This time titles a work whose sixth and final movement is a 12/8-time Pastorale ad libitum. That work is its composer’s (*) Concerto Grosso Opus 6, No. 8. It’s not Easter, but this time period inspired an oratorio by J. S. Bach that is actually six cantatas. This time of year titles the most famous concerto of Arcangelo Corelli. Handel’s Messiah is often performed during, for 10 points, what holiday whose celebration involves singing carols?
ANSWER: Christmas [or Christmas Day or Christmas Eve; accept Christmas Oratorio or Christmas Concerto] &lt;CK, Classical Music&gt;

354.
ID: 159141  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 11 | Number: 8
TOSSUP: In the Lorenz gauge (“gayj”), the scalar and vector potentials obey a differential equation describing these phenomena, and the d’Alembertian (“dal-am-BARE-shin”) is an operator used to describe these phenomena. In cylindrical conductors, these phenomena can only exist above a cutoff frequency in either TE or TM modes. One type of these phenomena exists in materials composed of a core and a cladding, and their (*) evanescent type extends beyond the edge of a fiber. These things can be produced by oscillating dipoles or antennas. These phenomena obey a linear dispersion relation in free spaces, but their group velocity is related to c by the index of refraction when they propagate through a medium. For 10 points, name this classical radiation of the electromagnetic field.
ANSWER: electromagnetic waves [or guided waves or waveguides or wave equations; accept specific types of EM radiation such as radio waves; accept electromagnetic radiation until read; prompt on answers including light; do not accept “photons” because none of the clues relate to quantized electromagnetic waves] &lt;GR, Physics&gt;

355.
ID: 159142  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Religion | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 11 | Number: 9
TOSSUP: Two fragments from an alternate version of this text were supposedly discovered at Mar Saba by Morton Smith, who used those fragments to theorize the existence of a secret nocturnal baptism ritual. The last twelve verses of this book make up the “Longer Ending,” following an earlier ending in which three women “said nothing to anyone, for they were afraid.” Along with a collection of sayings called the (*) Q source, this book is used as a source in the two-source hypothesis, which assumes that this gospel was the first to be written, though some early Christians thought that this gospel was a summary of the Gospel of Matthew. For 10 points, name this shortest gospel, found in the New Testament between the two other Synoptic Gospels, Matthew and Luke.
ANSWER: Gospel of Mark [or Gospel According to Mark] &lt;WC, Religion&gt;

356.
ID: 159143  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 11 | Number: 10
TOSSUP: The invocation “Clasp, Angel of the backward look” appears in a poem titled for this stuff that depicts Harriet Livermore as a “half-welcome guest” who would later travel to Jerusalem as a “crazy Queen of Lebanon.” A “gentle face – the face of one long dead” appears in a poem titled for this substance, in which a formation of it is compared to a mark that the speaker has worn “these eighteen years, through all the changing scenes” since the death by dress fire of his (*) wife. Longfellow wrote about a “Cross of” this substance, which the speaker wakes to “a universe of” in a long “idyll” by John Greenleaf Whittier. This substance appears as an adjective in the title of a poem that ends “and many miles to go before I sleep.” For 10 points, a Robert Frost speaker stops in a wood full of what substance?
ANSWER: snow &lt;JH, American Literature&gt;

357.
ID: 159161  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Mythology | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 12 | Number: 8
TOSSUP: In Toltec tradition, the goddess Chimalma caught five of these objects belonging to Mixcoatl, leading to the birth of priest king Topiltzin Quetzalcoatl. Bhīshma (“BEESH-muh”) preferred to recline his head on three of these objects rather than pillows on his deathbed, which was made using hundreds of these objects. Worshippers would throw objects of this sort marked with the words “God wills it me” or “God forbids it me” before a statue of Hubal during a divination rite performed at the pre-Islamic (*) Kaaba. Out of jealousy, Feng Meng kills his master for his superior skill with these objects after that master, Houyi, uses them to down nine suns. Arjuna is the only Pāndava to pierce the eye of a golden fish with one of these projectiles, which grants him the right to marry Draupadi. For 10 points, name these instruments of war that Philoctetes might have shot from a bow.
ANSWER: arrows [accept bow and arrow; do not accept “bow”] &lt;JS, Mythology&gt;

358.
ID: 159144  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 11 | Number: 11
TOSSUP: Dr. Ruth Shady is credited with discovering the oldest known civilization based in this modern-day country, which established the city of Caral. That civilization based in this country created the oldest known depiction of the “Staff God,” a motif common among this country’s ancient cultures like the Chavín (“cha-VEEN”). That civilization based in this country was the Norte Chico. Another ancient culture in this country, which made many water jars with stirrup spouts and portrait heads, was the (*) Moche (“MO-chay”). A culture located in this modern-day country created a series of geoglyphs including a depiction of a hummingbird. A civilization that was founded in this modern-day country was divided into four suyus or regions, which were centered at Cuzco. For 10 points, name this modern-day country that was home to the Nazca and Inca.
ANSWER: Peru &lt;AE, World History&gt;

359.
ID: 159140  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Other
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 11 | Number: 7
TOSSUP: This complex includes a hall that is named after its ceiling’s resemblance to the hull of a boat. M. C. Escher became interested in tessellation after viewing tiles at this complex, which features stalactite vaulting in its Hall of the Two Sisters. This complex includes a large reflecting pool surrounded with green shrubbery in its Court of the Myrtles, which lies to the south of the Tower of (*) Comares (“ko-MAH-race”). This complex, which is connected to the gardens of the Generalife (“heh-neh-rah-LEE-fay”), includes a fountain resting on twelve marble lions in its Court of the Lions. The Duke of Wellington planted English elms in this palace complex during the Peninsular War. It was originally built by the Nasrid Dynasty. For 10 points, name this Moorish palace complex overlooking Grenada, Spain.
ANSWER: the Alhambra [or Calat al-Hamra] &lt;CK, Other Arts&gt;

360.
ID: 159148  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 11 | Number: 15
TOSSUP: A novel set in this nation includes a scene in which the title character is mauled by prostitutes after the drunken Granger drags him into the House of the Five Hundred Girls. In that novel, a journalist stationed in this country lies to his mistress that his Catholic wife in England has granted him a divorce. A character starts a plastics company in this nation that produces bicycle pumps that are filled with explosives. That character is inspired by the ideas of (*) York Harding in arguing that this country needs a “Third Force.” In a novel set here, Phuong (“FOO-ung”) becomes the center of a love triangle involving Alden Pyle and Thomas Fowler. For 10 points, Graham Greene set The Quiet American in what nation that gained its independence from the French in the Indochina War?
ANSWER: Vietnam [accept Indochina until read] &lt;CK, British Literature&gt;

361.
ID: 159134  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History British
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 11 | Number: 1
TOSSUP: In order to encourage the passage of this legislation, some protesters attempted to cause a bank run, using the slogan, “To stop the Duke, go for gold!” Thomas Attwood formed the Birmingham Political Union to agitate for this legislation, the blocking of which led to a period of unrest called the Days of May. This legislation was passed after William IV gave (*) Earl Grey the authority to appoint more Liberal peers to the House of Lords. As a result of this legislation, a ruined town called Old Sarum stopped being represented by two seats in Parliament; Old Sarum was one of the “rotten borough” election districts that this legislation eliminated. For 10 points, name this Act of Parliament passed in 1832 that redistributed seats in Parliament and expanded the voter franchise.
ANSWER: Reform Act 1832 [or Representation of the People Act 1832; or Reform Bill; or Great Reform Act or First Reform Act; accept Reform Bills or Reform Acts; do not accept any answers giving an incorrect year] &lt;WC, European History&gt;

362.
ID: 159135  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature European
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 11 | Number: 2
TOSSUP: A poem from this country ends with the speaker declaring, “for one moment of peace, I would give the peace of the tomb.” This country was home to a symbolist poet who wrote the anti-memoir The Noise of Time and a poem that describes a man with fingers “bulky and fat like live-baits” who forges “his rules and decrees like horseshoes.” In another poem from this country, a woman with bluish lips asks the speaker, “Can you describe this?” in a section entitled (*) “Instead of a Preface.” That poem from this country describes the 17-month imprisonment of its author’s son. That poet from this country wrote “Poem Without a Hero” and “Requiem.” For 10 points, name this country home to Osip Mandelstam, who mocked one of its leaders in his “Stalin Epigram.”
ANSWER: Soviet Union [or USSR; prompt on Russia] (The other writer mentioned is Anna Akhmatova.) &lt;CK, European Literature&gt;

363.
ID: 159117  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 10 | Number: 4
TOSSUP: A climactic scene from this film ends with the camera slowly panning over to blood dripping from a rope. Paul Schrader’s original script for this film included a scene where the protagonist masturbates in his prison cell that was replaced with the protagonist bashing his head and wailing “I’m not an animal!” In another scene, this film’s protagonist screams “Did you (*) fuck my brother?” at his wife before angrily breaking down a bathroom door. Its final scene, which pays homage to On the Waterfront, depicts the protagonist alone in his dressing room reciting “I coulda been a contender.” This film famously uses a dolly zoom to depict its protagonist’s knockout loss to Sugar Ray Robinson. For 10 points, name this Martin Scorsese film about the boxer Jake LaMotta.
ANSWER: Raging Bull &lt;CK, Other Arts&gt;

364.
ID: 159136  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Math
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 11 | Number: 3
TOSSUP: A family of polynomials with this property are the irreducible characters of finite-dimensional representations of general linear groups. This adjective describes power sum and complete homogeneous polynomials that are related via Newton’s identities. The actions of a group G on a set X are the same as the group homomorphisms from G to this group of X. Hermitian matrices are the complex-valued analogues of matrices described by this term. (*) Dihedral groups are subgroups of groups named by this term, which consists of all permutations on a given number of items. In addition to reflexivity and transitivity, this is a property of equivalence relations. Matrices with this property are always diagonalizable, and are equal to their transpose. For 10 points, give this name for an object that can be divided into two mirror images.
ANSWER: symmetric [or word forms like symmetry] (The first clue is about Schur polynomials.) &lt;CK, Other Science: Mathematics&gt;

365.
ID: 159133  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 10 | Number: 20
TOSSUP: To solve a puzzle that C. L. Baker observed about dative acquisition, this psychologist conjectured that children “bootstrap” knowledge of argument structure from their knowledge of semantics. In a seminal 1988 paper with Alan Prince, this psychologist critiqued connectionist models of language acquisition, arguing that regular uses of the past tense must be default; he later revisited those arguments in his book (*) Words and Rules. He wrote a 1994 book that opens by likening a spider’s web-weaving and beaver’s dam-building to the human capacity for language in a book that popularized Chomskyan nativism. For 10 points, name this Harvard psychologist who wrote The Language Instinct.
ANSWER: Steven Pinker (The first clue is from Learnability and Cognition.) &lt;CK, Social Science&gt; Bonuses

366.
ID: 159132  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 10 | Number: 19
TOSSUP: ITAF factors can initiate this process, which is normally regulated by the 5-prime UTR and requires binding to the 5-prime cap. Release factors are required for this process to end. The signal recognition particle pauses this process by binding to its product. One participant in this process must be charged with fMet. In prokaryotes, this process happens after the SD sequence binds to the (*) 16S subunit. Elongation factors ensure that this process happens accurately. Viruses including coronavirus and HIV use a frameshift to change the products of this process, and it begins at start codons such as AUG. This process consists of many small cycles where charged tRNA binds to the A site of a ribosome. For 10 points, name this process of decoding mRNA to synthesize a protein chain.
ANSWER: translation [accept eukaryotic translation, or prokaryotic translation; prompt on protein synthesis] &lt;GR, Biology&gt;

367.
ID: 159137  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 11 | Number: 4
TOSSUP: In Irene Heim’s dissertation, this property is equated with a file change potential. Ray Jackendoff’s “Mentalist Postulate” holds that this property resides in “lexical conceptual structures.” This property is represented as a set of namesake postulates in an intensional logic in Montague (“MON-tuh-gyoo”) grammar. For an entire sentence, this property is simply a function of its constituents’ values, according to the principle of (*) compositionality. Noam Chomsky noted that the sentence “colorless green ideas sleep furiously” lacks this property, even though it is syntactically well-formed. A single lexical item corresponds to more than one of these properties in polysemy (“puh-LISS-uh-mee”) and homonymy. For 10 points, give this term for the expressive content of a word or sentence, studied in semantics.
ANSWER: meanings [do not accept “semantics”] &lt;CK, Social Science&gt;

368.
ID: 159206  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Computer Science
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 14 (Finals 2) | Number: 13
TOSSUP: In a 2009 paper, Keren Jin and Ethan Miller of UCSC found that using deduplication with these systems can reduce their storage requirements by a factor of 80 percent or more. In Intel processors, Extended Page Tables are used to reduce the overhead of maintaining shadow pages for these systems. These systems are created by programs like (*) ESXi and Microsoft’s Hyper-V, which are called hypervisors. HotSpot is an implementation of one of these systems that uses a just-in-time compiler. Java advertises that it is “Write once, run anywhere” because Java code is compiled to run on a namesake one of these systems. For 10 points, name these software computers that are “hosted” on a physical machine to emulate the workings of another machine.
ANSWER: virtual machines [or VMs; accept virtualization; accept JVM or Java Virtual Machine; prompt on virtual disks by asking “which are a part of what?”] &lt;WC, Other Science: Computer Science&gt;

369.
ID: 159129  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 10 | Number: 16
TOSSUP: In 1932, the opening ceremony of a bridge in this city was crashed by Francis De Groot, a member of the far-right New Guard, who rode in on horseback and cut the ribbon. This city was the capital of a colony where the Robertson Land Acts weakened the power of the ranching “squattocracy.” In this city, Philip Cunningham led a rebellion of Irish settlers during the “Second Battle of Vinegar Hill,” also called the (*) Castle Hill Rising. Lachlan Macquarie (“LACK-lan muh-KWAIR-ee”) was placed in charge of this city after John Macarthur overthrew governor William Bligh in the Rum Rebellion. James Cook’s HMS Endeavour made its first continental landing in Botany Bay, a few miles to the south of this city. For 10 points, name this capital of New South Wales, the most populous city in Australia.
ANSWER: Sydney &lt;AP, European History&gt;

370.
ID: 159130  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 10 | Number: 17
TOSSUP: A composer with this surname used a melody from Miklós Rózsa’s (“MEEK-lohsh RO-zhaw’s”) score for The Killers in his theme for the show Dragnet. A composer with this surname wrote an Opus 17 Piano Trio in G minor whose third movement scherzo (“SKAIRT-soh”) uses a “Scotch snap” rhythm. That composer with this surname premiered Brahms’s Variations and Fugue on a Theme by Handel. Brahms and that composer both wrote variations on the sad F-sharp minor fourth piece from Bunte Blätter (“BOON-tuh BLEH-tuh”) by a composer with this surname. That composer wrote a symphony whose fourth movement in the parallel key of E-flat minor opens with a brass (*) chorale of trombones and horns playing a series of rising fourths, has five movements, and was inspired by the coronation of an archbishop at the Cologne Cathedral. For 10 points, give this surname shared by the composer of the Rhenish Symphony, Robert, and his wife Clara.
ANSWER: Schumann [accept Robert Schumann or Clara Schumann or Walter Schumann; prompt on Wieck] &lt;AE, Classical Music&gt;

371.
ID: 159127  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Philosophy | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 10 | Number: 14
TOSSUP: This philosopher contrasted the “easy-going mood” with the “strenuous mood” in an essay that divides ethics into psychological, metaphysical, and casuistic (“kazh-oo-ISS-tick”) questions. He compared God to a master chess player playing against novices in an essay that coined the term “soft determinism”; that essay is “The Dilemmas of Determinism.” Richard (*) Rorty extended his argument against defining truth as agreement with reality. In a critique of evidentialism, he argued that decisions must be “forced,” “momentous,” and “live” to be “genuine options.” This philosopher’s best-known book contrasts “tender-minded” rationalists with “tough-minded” empiricists. For 10 points, name this American philosopher who wrote “The Will to Believe” and Pragmatism.
ANSWER: William James (The first clue describes “The Moral Philosopher and the Moral Life.”) &lt;GR, Philosophy&gt;

372.
ID: 159131  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 10 | Number: 18
TOSSUP: A poem in this collection describes the “gale of life” that “blows so hard, ’twill soon be gone: to-day the Roman and his trouble are ashes under Uricon.” The last stanza of a poem in this collection tells of an Eastern king, whose would-be assassins put “strychnine in his cup, and shook to see him drink it up.” It includes a poem whose dead speaker asks “Is football playing along the shore, now I stand up no more?” In addition to “On (*) Wenlock Edge,” it includes a poem describing men who “look into the pewter pot, to see the world as the world’s not,” noting: “malt does more than Milton can, to justify God’s ways to man.” For 10 points, name this collection, including “Is My Team Ploughing” and “Terence, This is Stupid Stuff,” written by A. E. Housman.
ANSWER: A Shropshire Lad &lt;CK, British Literature&gt;

373.
ID: 159128  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Mythology | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 10 | Number: 15
TOSSUP: The Gerarai priestesses ceremonially married the basilinna to this deity during Anthesteria. Mary Beard wrote about the mutual influence between Roman iconography and the motif of this deity returning from a foreign land in the thiasus procession, which is depicted in Nonnus’s massive epic about his invasion of India. To fulfill a promise to the shepherd Prosymnus, this deity sodomized himself on Prosymnus’s tomb after returning from the (*) underworld. This deity granted King Midas the “golden touch” after Midas treated this deity’s friend Silenus hospitably. Devotees of this god carried thyrsi and included the killers of King Pentheus, the maenads. This god was born from Zeus’s thigh after his original mother Semele was annihilated by Zeus’s true form. For 10 points, name this Greek god of madness, drunken revelry, and wine.
ANSWER: Dionysus [accept Bacchus until “Greek” is read] &lt;JS, Mythology&gt;

374.
ID: 159138  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 11 | Number: 5
TOSSUP: In 2001, Ann Telnaes contrasted this character with what is almost a solid black square in a Pulitzer-winning editorial cartoon. This character was first introduced in a song by Redd Evans and John Jacob Loeb that emphasizes how this character gave up “sipping martinis, munching caviar.” In another depiction, this character was modeled on the Sistine Chapel’s Isaiah by Norman Rockwell, who showed this character eating a sandwich as this character’s feet rest on a copy of (*) Mein Kampf. In the best-known depiction of this character, she is shown rolling up her shirtsleeve, flexing her arm, and saying “We Can Do It!” For 10 points, what character was used on posters to encourage women to work in munitions factories during World War II?
ANSWER: Rosie the Riveter [prompt on partial answer] &lt;WC, American History&gt;

375.
ID: 159123  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Geography | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 10 | Number: 10
TOSSUP: This city’s tallest residential building is the cylindrical Manfred Hermer-designed Ponte City, which at one point housed a 10-story-high pile of garbage. Located about 50 miles to the northwest of this city is the Cradle of Humankind, a UNESCO World Heritage site where scientists discovered fossils of the Homo naledi species. This capital of Gauteng province is served by the O. R. (*) Tambo International Airport. This city is about 40 miles south of its country’s executive capital of Pretoria, and its districts of Newtown and Braamfontein are linked by its Nelson Mandela Bridge. In 2002, the township of Soweto (“suh-WET-oh”), once an apartheid-era slum set aside for Black residents outside this city, was officially incorporated into this city. For 10 points, name this largest city in South Africa.
ANSWER: Johannesburg [or Joburg] &lt;GR, Other&gt;

376.
ID: 159121  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 10 | Number: 8
TOSSUP: Superfluid condensates can become Mott insulators as a potential described by this term is ramped on. Retro-reflected laser beams can create a potential described by this term through the AC Stark shift; that example of these systems is used in strontium-based atomic clocks. These mathematical structures are generated by discrete translations, and the gamma point is the center of a primitive cell in one of these structures in reciprocal space. That (*) unit cell is called the Brillouin (“bree-WANN”) zone and is analogous to the Wigner–Seitz (“VIG-ner sites”) construction for the “real space” type of these structures. Types of these structures include orthorhombic and triclinic, examples of these structures catalogued by Bravais (“bra-VAY”). For 10 points, name these periodic mathematical objects used to model crystal structure.
ANSWER: lattices [accept optical lattices or crystal lattices; prompt on crystals by asking “what kind of structure do crystals exemplify?”; prompt on periodic until “structures” is read] &lt;GR, Physics&gt;

377.
ID: 159124  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 10 | Number: 11
TOSSUP: This country was briefly ruled by a monarch derisively nicknamed “King Macaroni” for his Italian origin. That king was elected to rule this country after the previous monarch was deposed in a non-British Glorious Revolution. This country’s Liberal Triennium was brought to an end by the invasion of the “Hundred Thousand Sons of St. Louis,” an army that was sent by a northern relative of this country’s (*) Bourbon monarch Ferdinand VII. That monarch of this non-Austrian country passed an 1830 Pragmatic Sanction to allow his daughter Isabella II to succeed him, leading to several civil wars between the liberal Cristinos and the conservative Carlists. For 10 points, name this country whose monarchy was restored during a 1930s civil war by the generalissimo Francisco Franco.
ANSWER: Spain [or España] &lt;AE, European History&gt;

378.
ID: 159122  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 10 | Number: 9
TOSSUP: A Titian portrait depicts one of these people as a doddering old man flanked by two scheming grandsons. A wax sculpture of one of these people is shown crushed beneath a meteorite in Maurizio Cattelan’s installation piece The Ninth Hour. One of these people is shown trapped in a cage-like structure in the painting Head VI, whose artist also depicted one of these people between two halves of a butchered cow in Figure with (*) Meat. After seeing an artist’s painting of his Moorish servant Juan de Pareja, one of these people commissioned a portrait that later inspired several depictions of these people “screaming” by Francis Bacon. For 10 points, name this kind of person depicted in Diego Velázquez’s Portrait of Innocent X.
ANSWER: popes &lt;CK, Painting &amp; Sculpture&gt;

379.
ID: 159118  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Religion | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 10 | Number: 5
TOSSUP: In this region, the Rimé (“ree-MAY”) movement was founded in the 19th century, emphasizing non-sectarianism by gathering the teachings of the “eight systems.” In this region’s “treasure” tradition, masters called tertöns claimed to have found buried texts called termas. A religious text from this region describes the passage of a recently deceased person through the (*) bardos and is called this region’s Book of the Dead. In this region, the Nyingma, Sakya, and Kagyu schools make up the “Red Hat” sect, contrasted with the Gelug “Yellow Hat” sect. A religious leader of this region is chosen after correctly choosing items that belonged to his previous reincarnation. For 10 points, name this Asian region that was once led spiritually and politically by the Dalai Lama.
ANSWER: Tibet [or Bod or Xīzàng] &lt;WC, Religion&gt;

380.
ID: 159119  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature Classical
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 10 | Number: 6
TOSSUP: One of these people is the dedicatee of a poem that includes the remark, “Creatures of a day! What is a man? What is he not? A dream of a shadow is our mortal being.” According to an apocryphal story, Scopas refused to pay Simonides for a poem about one of these people after he included too many references to Castor and Pollux. A long digression about the Hyperboreans appears in a poem about one of these people named (*) Hippocleas. They were celebrated in poems called epinikia. Bacchylides wrote a poem about one of these people, Hieron of Syracuse, who was known for his chariot ability. For 10 points, Pindar wrote “victory odes” celebrating what participants in the Olympic Games?
ANSWER: Greek athletes [accept victors until “victory” is read; accept Olympians until “Olympic” is read] &lt;CK, European Literature&gt;

381.
ID: 159125  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 10 | Number: 12
TOSSUP: In a poem, this character describes when “then fled, O brethren, the wicked juba / and wandered wandered far / from curfew joys in the… night.” Robert Hayden wrote that “ballad” about this man, who in a novel teaches himself to read by stealing a copy of John Bunyan’s The Life and Death of Mr. Badman. In that novel, a crazed axe-wielding character named Will goads this man into murdering (*) Margaret Whitehead. This character undertook his best-known action after a prophetic dream in which drops of blood fall on an ear of corn, according to an account written by his lawyer Thomas Gray. For 10 points, William Styron wrote a novel describing the Confessions of what leader of an 1831 slave uprising in Virginia?
ANSWER: Nat Turner [accept either underlined name] &lt;CK, American Literature&gt;

382.
ID: 159120  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 10 | Number: 7
TOSSUP: This empire received the ambassador García de Silva Figueroa, sent by Philip III of Spain, who left a detailed account of his travels and the ruins of “Chilminara.” In a book titled after a ruler of this empire, Sheila Canby examined the construction of a Royal Mosque with seven colors of tiles on the south side of its capital’s Royal Square. The Peace of Amasya ended a war that saw a battle in which this empire’s (*) Qizilbash cavalry was decimated by musket fire from Selim the Grim’s Janissaries. That battle, an Ottoman victory against this empire, was Chaldiran. This empire’s ruler Abbas I moved its capital from Qazvin to Isfahan. For 10 points, name this Persian dynasty that ruled from 1501 to 1736, which saw the establishment of Shia Islam as the state religion.
ANSWER: Safavid Dynasty [or Safavids; prompt on Iran or Persia] &lt;JL, World History&gt;

383.
ID: 159112  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature World
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 09 | Number: 19
TOSSUP: Adaptations of works in this language include Ola Rotimi’s most famous play and a play that Kamau Brathwaite wrote to be performed by children, Odale’s Choice. A play based on a work in this language ends with slaves participating in a “communion rite” after discovering that some jetting liquid is wine, not blood. When they aren’t making piles of sand, two cellmates rehearse a play written in this language in Athol Fugard’s The Island. (*) Wole Soyinka (“WALL-ay SHOW-ying-ka”) translated and adapted a play written in this language in which a woman realizes that the bloodied head she is carrying belongs to her son. The protagonist of Soyinka’s play Death and the King’s Horseman is written in the mold of the “pity and terror”-evoking, tragically-flawed heroes of this language’s dramas. For 10 points, name this language of The Bacchae and Antigone.
ANSWER: Ancient Greek &lt;JB, World/Other Literature&gt;

384.
ID: 159113  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 09 | Number: 20
TOSSUP: A transmembrane permease protein studied by Abramson that transports this molecule has twelve alpha helices and uses a hydrogen ion gradient to transport this molecule into cells. ONPG can be used in a spectrophotometric assay that quantifies activity of an enzyme that [emphasize] acts on this molecule. That enzyme that breaks down this molecule is active in recombinants measured in the (*) blue-white screen. A genetic structure studied by Monod and Jacob is activated by this molecule and includes Z, Y, and A genes. That operon codes for an enzyme that breaks this dimer’s glycosidic bond, allowing E. coli to metabolize this sugar. For 10 points, name this milk sugar to which some adults are intolerant.
ANSWER: lactose [accept beta galactosides] &lt;GR, Biology&gt; Bonuses

385.
ID: 159111  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 09 | Number: 18
TOSSUP: In Sibelius’s (“sih-BAY-lee-us’s”) Pelléas et Mélisande (“pay-lay-OSS ay may-lee-ZOND”), this instrument portrays Mélisande. A French critic mistakenly invokes Haydn as a precedent for why this transposing instrument doesn’t belong in a symphony, but solos for it open Vincent d’Indy’s (“van-SAWN dan-DEE’s”) Symphony on a French Mountain Air and the second movement of César Franck’s (“say-zar fronk’s”) Symphony in D minor. This instrument’s mordent F-sharp E F-sharp after four guitar strums opens the second movement of (*) Rodrigo’s Concierto de Aranjuez (“kon-see-AIR-toh de ah-rahn-WEZZ”). This instrument portrays oriental merchants in Borodin’s In the Steppes of Central Asia and the title bird in Sibelius’s The Swan of Tuonela. A melody that was adapted into the spiritual “Goin’ Home” was played by this instrument at the opening of the Largo second movement of Dvořák’s New World Symphony. For 10 points, name this double-reed woodwind instrument pitched a fifth lower than the oboe.
ANSWER: English horn [or cor anglais; do not accept or prompt on “horn” or “French horn”] &lt;AE, Classical Music&gt;

386.
ID: 159162  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 12 | Number: 9
TOSSUP: This conflict inspired a poem that opens with the question “Hath not the morning dawned with added light?” That poem is “Ethnogenesis.” A poem about this war commands the title musical instruments to “leave not the bridegroom quiet, nor the peaceful farmer any peace” as they play “through the windows” and “through doors.” This conflict’s poetry is dismissed as “versified journalism” in literary critic (*) Edmund Wilson’s book Patriotic Gore. During his time as volunteer a nurse in this war, an author wrote the poems “Hush’d Be the Camps To-Day” and “Beat! Beat! Drums!” For 10 points, name this conflict that inspired Walt Whitman’s collection Drum-Taps and Herman Melville’s poem “Shiloh.”
ANSWER: American Civil War &lt;CK, American Literature&gt;

387.
ID: 159139  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature World
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 11 | Number: 6
TOSSUP: Upon being discovered wearing a surgeon’s scrubs and a huge fake beard, a character in this novel tells a visitor that he will “do a Caesarean on the girl” before having tea with him. In this novel, a Bayer employee who learns to hate children with the help of his psychiatrist is among those who are killed by a fire at a monastery during an earthquake. This novel repeats the statement that one’s fifties is the “prime of life” in describing characters such as a star soccer referee and the founder of Rodent Exterminators, Inc. (*) Javier assists the protagonist of this novel during a taxi trip to find an official who’s willing to oversee the marriage of a minor to a divorcée. This novel’s even chapters consist of progressively confusing radionovelas written by Pedro Camacho. For 10 points, name this novel about an author’s romance with the title relative, a work of Mario Vargas Llosa.
ANSWER: Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter [or La tía Julia y el escribidor] &lt;AP, World/Other Literature&gt;

388.
ID: 159114  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature World
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 10 | Number: 1
TOSSUP: In a play from this country, a master tells two men not to eat sugar out of a vase because it is a “delicious poison.” In a play from this country, a character uses a mouse escaping a mousetrap as a metaphor for his son escaping his house arrest for a crime that was actually committed by a character nicknamed “Hard Luck.” Two sisters who ladle saltwater are memorialized by a pine tree in a play by an author from this country, who described his techniques in The Transmission of the Flower Through the Forms. (*) The Uprooted Pine is set in this country. In a play from here, a paper merchant fails to buy his lover out from a brothel, leading them to kill themselves. The author of two puppet plays about “Love Suicides,” Chikamatsu, is from this country. For 10 points, name this country whose historical theater forms include kyōgen and bunraku.
ANSWER: Japan (The kyōgen play in the first line is Busu.) &lt;VS, World/Other Literature&gt;

389.
ID: 159126  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Math
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 10 | Number: 13
TOSSUP: A number that characterizes this procedure equals four in structures that Martin Gardner dubbed “snarks.” This procedure partitions the set of undirected graphs, according to Vizing’s theorem. It is an open question whether a number characterizing this procedure equals the size of a complete subgraph that is a minor. There exists a least positive integer such that performing this procedure on a complete graph results in a clique that has only one of its namesake properties, according to (*) Ramsey’s theorem. This procedure’s namesake number is usually symbolized chi (“kye”). Kempe published an incorrect proof by “patching” a result about the minimum number of properties needed for this procedure in one case. For 10 points, Appel and Haken used a computer-assisted proof to show that what graph-labelling task requires only four of the namesake properties on a planar map?
ANSWER: graph coloring [or vertex coloring or edge coloring or coloring a map; accept four-color map theorem or colors; prompt on graph labeling or vertex labeling or edge labeling] (The third clue is the Hadwiger conjecture.) &lt;CK, Other Science: Mathematics&gt;

390.
ID: 159020  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 05 | Number: 7
TOSSUP: During this monarch’s reign, he received the English ambassadors Jerome Bowe and Jerome Horsey. This monarch organized a group of advisors called the “Chosen Council” to reform his administration. This monarch conquered the khanate of Astrakhan. This monarch’s capital was burned by Crimean Tatars while he was attacking Poland-Lithuania in the (*) Livonian War. That war also saw this monarch carry out the Massacre of Novgorod using his newly-created oprichniki secret police. This monarch was succeeded by his simple-minded son Fyodor the Bellringer after he had murdered his previous heir, paving the way for his country’s Time of Troubles. For 10 points, name this first Russian ruler to be proclaimed tsar, whose epithet refers to his fearsome nature.
ANSWER: Ivan the Terrible [or Ivan IV or Ivan Grozny or Ivan Vasilyevich] &lt;AE, European History&gt;

391.
ID: 159104  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 09 | Number: 11
TOSSUP: This ruler brandishes a sword as he enters the Temple of Art through a crowd of blindfolded men in a fresco depicting his “enlightenment,” which is a part of a namesake gallery that also includes The Royal Elephant. He commissioned a lunette that depicts a reclining nymph with her arm languidly draped around a deer. This monarch hired Primaticcio and Rosso Fiorentino to decorate his favorite palace, the (*) Château de Fontainebleau (“fon-ten-BLOW”). He commissioned a golden sculpture with a blue-enameled sea separating Ceres from a trident-wielding Neptune. This king commissioned that Salt Cellar from Benvenuto Cellini. For 10 points, name this Valois (“val-WAH”) king, a noted patron of the arts who purchased the Mona Lisa from Leonardo da Vinci.
ANSWER: Francis I of France &lt;CK, Painting &amp; Sculpture&gt;

392.
ID: 159105  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History Classical
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 09 | Number: 12
TOSSUP: This leader quipped that “If all the Roman people want to make me aedile (“EE-dyle”), I am old enough” when tribunes objected that he did not meet the minimum age for aedile. This leader claimed that Neptune had appeared to him the night before the lowering of a lagoon helped him capture Cartagena. This general conducted a “reverse (*) Cannae” to crush the opposing army at the Battle of Ilipa. This general convinced Masinissa to defect to his side, before winning a battle in which Masinissa’s Numidian cavalry routed the enemy cavalry. That battle also saw this general arrange his forces with broad gaps in order to neutralize the charge of the enemy’s elephants. For 10 points, name this Roman general who defeated Hannibal at Zama, thus winning the Second Punic War.
ANSWER: Scipio Africanus the Elder [or Scipio Africanus Major or Publius Cornelius Scipio Africanus; prompt on Scipio] &lt;AE, European History&gt;

393.
ID: 159103  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Philosophy | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 09 | Number: 10
TOSSUP: In “mesh” theories, this idea is defined as having higher-order volitions that enact one’s “effective desires.” P. F. Strawson distinguished between “reactive” and “objective” attitudes in a paper titled for this idea and “resentment.” In a 1969 paper which argues that this idea has no bearing on moral culpability, its author presents namesake “cases” concerning Jones to refute the principle of alternative possibilities. Alvin Plantinga argued that God can only create humans who are (*) “transworld depraved” in an argument known as this idea’s namesake “defense” against the problem of evil. Harry Frankfurt is a compatibilist, believing that this idea is reconcilable with determinism. For 10 points, John Calvin’s idea of predestination is opposed to what idea that humans are able to make genuine decisions?
ANSWER: free will [or freedom; or freedom of the will] &lt;CK, Philosophy&gt;

394.
ID: 159106  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 09 | Number: 13
TOSSUP: Karen Andre claims to have faked Bjorn Faulkner’s fall from a penthouse balcony in an Ayn Rand play set in one of these places that has multiple endings depending on the actions of audience members. In one of these places, a character stresses the need to “look behind the paint” as he recounts how a toy horse broke when he rode it as a child. In this type of place, a character states that “If the Lord wishes a sponge to think, it thinks” and (*) collapses after straining his voice to yell as his microphone is turned off. In that play, a banner with the words “Read your Bible!” hangs in one of these places where a character based on William Jennings Bryan interrogates Bert Cates in Lawrence and Lee’s play Inherit the Wind. For 10 points, the opening scene of Reginald Rose’s play 12 Angry Men occurs in what sort of room, before the characters withdraw for deliberation?
ANSWER: courtrooms [or courthouses] (The Ayn Rand play is The Night of January 16th.) &lt;AP, American Literature&gt;

395.
ID: 159015  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Geography | Subcategory: Geography American
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 05 | Number: 2
TOSSUP: In 2007, residents of a city in this state came up with the idea of running naked every Halloween wearing only a pumpkin on their heads, after which a public nudity law was passed. It’s not Montana, but the Stanley Hotel in this state inspired Stephen King’s novel The Shining. After a surveyor claimed that a park in this state would make a good beer garden, his companion dubbed it the “Garden of the (*) Gods” instead. An airport in this state is the subject of conspiracy theories thanks to its strange murals and swastika-shaped runways. A Pueblo dwelling called the Cliff Palace can be found in this state’s Mesa Verde National Park. A city in this state named after its “Springs” is the location of the US Air Force Academy. For 10 points, name this state whose cities include Boulder and Denver.
ANSWER: Colorado &lt;AP, Other&gt;

396.
ID: 159100  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 09 | Number: 7
TOSSUP: This kingdom documented its royal rituals in a collection of books called uigwe (“wee-GWAY”) that was looted by France before being returned to a modern successor of this kingdom in 2007. An engineer employed by this kingdom invented a self-striking water clock and a rain gauge before falling out of favor for building a faulty palanquin (“pal-an-KEEN”). That engineer was part of a royal academy of this kingdom called the Hall of Worthies. This kingdom won a battle in which 12 or 13 (*) ships held off an entire invasion fleet; the admiral at that battle, who made effective use of ironclad “turtle ships,” was Yi Sun-sin. This kingdom’s ruler Sejong the Great personally created the Hangul alphabet. For 10 points, the year 1910 saw Japan’s annexation of what last independent Korean kingdom?
ANSWER: Joseon [or Choson; prompt on Korea or Hanguk] (The engineer is Jang Yeong-sil.) &lt;AE, World History&gt;

397.
ID: 159101  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature European
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 09 | Number: 8
TOSSUP: After a clergyman in this play condemns a man who married a fallen woman for a paltry sum, another character asks what he thinks of her marrying a fallen man for a fortune. The protagonist of this play remembers being sick after climbing on his father’s knee and smoking his pipe. A building in this play is left uninsured because insurance would indicate that its owners didn’t believe in divine protection, but that (*) orphanage burns down when a snuffed candle is tossed into some wood shavings by Pastor Manders. That action is witnessed by Engstrand, who is believed to be the father of Regina until she is revealed to be the half-sister of this play’s protagonist. For 10 points, name this play about the syphilitic Oswald Alving by Henrik Ibsen.
ANSWER: Ghosts [or Gengangere] &lt;VS, European Literature&gt;

398.
ID: 159099  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Computer Science
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 09 | Number: 6
TOSSUP: Fredman and Willard invented a variety of these things that does faster operations by exploiting constant-time operations on machine words. A desirable condition for these things can be maintained using the Day–Stout–Warren algorithm. Collision detection can be performed efficiently using “quad” and “oct” varieties of these structures. The (*) AVL variety of these data structures performs rotations after some insertions and deletions. In a type of these data structures, an extra bit stored with each node designates it as either red or black. These data structures are self-balancing if they automatically keep their height minimal. For 10 points, name these hierarchical data structures often used for binary searches that consist of a root, internal nodes, and leaves.
ANSWER: trees [accept fusion trees or quadtrees or octrees or AVL trees or red-black trees or binary (search) trees; prompt on graphs] &lt;VS, Other Science: Computer Science&gt;

399.
ID: 159097  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Other
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 09 | Number: 4
TOSSUP: To support Ai Weiwei, this artist created a parody of the song “Gangnam Style” called Gangnam for Freedom. Salman Rushdie provided the text for a work by this sculptor meant to be an “interrogation of the Arabian Nights” called Blood Relations. This artist took a photograph of himself with his middle finger covered in the world’s “pinkest pink” dye, which he was banned from using after buying the exclusive license to the world’s (*) “blackest black” material, Vantablack. The original version of one of this artist’s sculptures was installed in Nottingham and is a 10-pound polished disk angled up. Another of this artist’s work allows people to walk under it and see Chicago’s skyline in a distorted reflection and resides in Millennium Park. For 10 points, name this Turner Prize-winning British-Indian sculptor of Cloud Gate, which is also known as the “Bean.”
ANSWER: Anish Kapoor &lt;JH, Other Arts&gt;

400.
ID: 159096  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 09 | Number: 3
TOSSUP: The diary of the herbalist and midwife Martha Ballard in this state became the basis of the social history A Midwife’s Tale by Laurel Thatcher Ulrich. This state was defended by the Hancock Barracks during a conflict that took place despite a failed arbitration attempt by William I of the Netherlands. This state’s reputation for predicting (*) presidential races gave rise to the slogan, “As [this state] goes, so goes the nation.” This state’s 20th regiment defended Little Round Top during the Battle of Gettysburg. The Webster-Ashburton Treaty settled a dispute over this state’s northern border that had sparked the bloodless Aroostook War. For 10 points, name this state that was admitted to the Union as part of the Missouri Compromise, when it broke off from Massachusetts.
ANSWER: Maine &lt;AE, American History&gt;

401.
ID: 159107  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Religion | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 09 | Number: 14
TOSSUP: The last period of a chronology developed by Theodor Nöldeke (“TEE-oh-dor NULL-day-kuh”) consists of texts composed in this city, which tend to lack a tripartite structure and address the community with “O people!” A place of worship in this city uniquely has two qiblas that commemorate a command to change the direction of prayer. This city’s locals were known as the “helpers” or (*) Ansar. This city originated as a Jewish settlement named Yathrib. A large green dome was built over the tomb of Muhammad in this city; that dome is part of the Prophet’s Mosque, which Muhammad had personally built in this city. In order to escape persecution, the Muslim community emigrated [emphasize] to this city in the hijrah. For 10 points, the hijrah was a migration from Mecca to what other Arabian city?
ANSWER: Medina [or al-Medina; accept Yathrib until read] &lt;WC, Religion&gt;

402.
ID: 159098  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 09 | Number: 5
TOSSUP: This place titles a poem whose speaker compares his younger self to a roe, bounding “o’er the mountains, by the sides of the deep rivers, and the lonely streams.” In a poem titled for this place, seeing “wreaths of smoke” in the trees leads the narrator to imagine “some hermit’s cave, where by his fire the hermit sits alone.” In that poem, the speaker hopes that memories of this place will impress “a mansion for all the lovely forms” onto the mind of his (*) sister Dorothy. This place titles a poem from Lyrical Ballads that begins, “Five years have past; five summers, with the length of five long winters!” That poem is entitled “Line Composed a Few Miles Above” this building. For 10 points, name this ruined cathedral on the River Wye that inspired a poem by William Wordsworth.
ANSWER: Tintern Abbey [accept “Lines Composed a Few Miles Above Tintern Abbey on Revisiting the banks of the River Wye During a Tour. July 13, 1798”] &lt;CK, British Literature&gt;

403.
ID: 159095  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 09 | Number: 2
TOSSUP: Upon coming to power, this nation’s current prime minister ordered that its children be taught a set of “12 values” of this nation that he invented. In October 2018, a man from Liverpool, England, sprayed “Scouser Lee” and “B” on an 800-year-old gate in this nation. In October 2018, a businessman from this nation who founded the duty-free retailer King Power died in a (*) helicopter crash near a stadium in Leicester (“LESS-ter”). This nation has combated an insurgency in its southern Pattani province since 2004. In 2008, yellow-shirts supporting the People’s Alliance for Democracy seized the Suvarnabhumi airport in this nation’s capital to protest then-prime minister Thaksin Shinawatra. For 10 points, name this nation whose king Rama IX died in Bangkok.
ANSWER: Thailand [accept Siam] &lt;AP, Other&gt;

404.
ID: 159102  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 09 | Number: 9
TOSSUP: A diagonal matrix of energies corresponding to these constructs is left-multiplied by the overlap matrix and a coefficient matrix C in the Roothaan (“ROTE-hahn”) equation, which equates that product to the product FC. Walsh diagrams can relate the effects of distortions to the energy of these constructs. The energy of one of these structures is related to ionization energy by (*) Koopmans’ (“COPE-mahns”) theorem. The “frontier” examples of these structures are called the HOMO and LUMO. One model for these structures consists of linear combinations of their simpler atomic analogues, and they are classified as bonding, antibonding, or nonbonding. For 10 points, name these structures that represent the probability density for electrons in systems of multiple atoms.
ANSWER: molecular orbitals [or MOs; accept atomic orbitals until “Walsh” is read, but prompt on orbitals thereafter; do not accept “atomic orbitals” after “Walsh” is read] &lt;VS, Chemistry&gt;

405.
ID: 159115  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 10 | Number: 2
TOSSUP: With Karl Mundt, this politician co-sponsored a bill that would have required Communist organizations to be registered with a “Subversive Activities Control Board.” To win election to Congress for the first time, this politician compared Helen Gahagan Douglas’s voting record to that of Vito Marcantonio and made the accusation that she was (*) “pink right down to her underwear.” This politician gave a speech in which he listed his assets and liabilities before confessing that a man from Texas named Pat had sent him a cocker spaniel. That was the “Checkers Speech,” delivered during this politician’s campaign as Eisenhower’s vice-presidential candidate. For 10 points, name this president who visited China before resigning in the midst of the Watergate scandal.
ANSWER: Richard Nixon [or Richard Milhous Nixon] &lt;AE, American History&gt;

406.
ID: 159116  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 10 | Number: 3
TOSSUP: Ultra-high pressure nitrogen undergoes one of these reactions, resulting in a predicted cubic-gauche structure. The glow discharge method is used to prepare plasmas to participate in this type of reaction. Isocyanate reactants are used with polyols in one reaction of this type. One property of the products of these reactions can be measured by membrane osmometry or differential light scattering. When these reactions involve free radicals, they use an initiator such as (*) AIBN. Chain-transfer agents reduce the average molecular weight of the product of these reactions. Chloroethene and ethylene are common reactants used in this type of reaction, and they involve bonds being formed as a chain grows. For 10 points, name these reactions that create macromolecules by bonding many monomers together.
ANSWER: polymerization reactions [accept plasma polymerization, chain growth polymerization, or (free) radical polymerization] &lt;GR, Chemistry&gt;

407.
ID: 159090  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Audiovisual
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 08 | Number: 17
TOSSUP: During a performance of this opera, Maria Callas’s (“KAH-lahss’s”) hair caught on fire, leading Tito Gobbi to leap onto her to put it out. This opera opens with the recurring motif of three loud, spooky, brassy major chords on B-flat, A-flat, and E. A character in this opera trades his last possession of a ring to deliver a letter to the title character, leading him to sing about how “the Earth was scented” in the aria (*) “E lucevan le stelle” (“ay loo-CHAY-von lay stell-ay”). This opera’s title character sings the aria “Vissi d’arte” (“vee-see DAR-tay”) after Baron Scarpia attempts to blackmail her, and in its finale, the title character kills herself by jumping off a parapet after the execution of her lover Mario Cavaradossi. For 10 points, name this opera about the title singer by Giacomo Puccini.
ANSWER: Tosca &lt;JL, Other Arts&gt;

408.
ID: 159091  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Philosophy | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 08 | Number: 18
TOSSUP: This book argues that “external goods” are insufficient for megalopsuchia, or “greatness of soul.” The ninth section of this book divides friendships into those based on utility, pleasure, and goodness of character, arguing that only the latter lasts. It endorses Socrates’ claim that people ever knowingly choose evil, arguing that passions prevent unqualified knowledge in cases of akrasia. This work, whose last section promotes (*) theōria, or the life of contemplation, argues that courage lies between cowardice and rashness. It argues that the goal of ethics is a state of fulfillment called eudaimonia. This book argues that each virtue is the average of two extremes in its Doctrine of the Mean. For 10 points, identify this ethical treatise that Aristotle named after his son.
ANSWER: Nicomachean Ethics [prompt on Aristotle’s Ethics] &lt;GR, Philosophy&gt;

409.
ID: 159092  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Mythology | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 08 | Number: 19
TOSSUP: One account of this event describes the “three times 3,600” units of bitumen that its narrator poured into a kiln prior to it. The seven judges of the underworld signalled this event by setting the land on fire with their torches. This event occurred after the reign of a king who was credited with writing the Instructions of Shuruppak. A whisper through a reed wall informed Ziusudra (“zee-oo-SOO-druh”) of this event, a scene repeated in the (*) Epic of Atrahasis. The protagonist of another epic sleeps for seven days in the house of a man who had used a 1200-cubit-tall structure to escape this event. In the Epic of Gilgamesh, Utnapishtim and his wife are granted immortality by Ea (“AY-uh”) after surviving this event. For 10 points, what event described in several Mesopotamian creation myths is often compared with the one survived by Noah?
ANSWER: the Great Flood [accept equivalents of the Sumerian/Mesopotamian/Akkadian/Babylonian myth of a great flood or deluge] &lt;JS, Mythology&gt;

410.
ID: 159089  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 08 | Number: 16
TOSSUP: It’s not in Russia, but this party seized power in the March 8 Revolution that established a 20-member junta called the National Council of the Revolutionary Command. In 1970, a leader from this party launched a “Corrective Movement” that overthrew his political mentor from the left-wing “neo-” branch of this party. This party’s regime carried out the 1982 Hama massacre against the (*) Muslim Brotherhood during the presidency of Hafez al-Assad, a dictator from this party. A dictator from this party in a different country carried out the Halabja gas attack against Kurdish civilians and attempted an invasion of Kuwait. For 10 points, name this Arab nationalist political party that lost power in Iraq in 2003 following the deposition of Saddam Hussein.
ANSWER: Ba’ath Party [or Arab Socialist Ba’ath Party or Ba’athism or Ba’athists; accept Neo-Ba’athism] &lt;AE, World History&gt;

411.
ID: 159093  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 08 | Number: 20
TOSSUP: In the American West, members of this ethnic group’s diaspora established many sheep ranches like New Mexico’s Mocho Ranch. People from this ethnic group created the card game mus. Private “gastronomic societies” hosted by members of this ethnic group often cook a tuna and potato soup called marmitako. This ethnic group created a sport in which rubber balls are hurled at high speeds in a (*) fronton; that sport, known as this ethnic group’s kind of pelota, is jai alai (“HYE uh-lye”). Members of this ethnic group speak a language called Euskara by its speakers, which is a language isolate not of Indo-European origin. For 10 points, the terrorist group ETA fought for the independence of what ethnic group found near the Bay of Biscay in southern France and northern Spain?
ANSWER: Basques [or euskaldunak; or vascos] &lt;AP, Other&gt; Bonuses

412.
ID: 159088  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature World
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 08 | Number: 15
TOSSUP: It’s not Ireland, but a book from this country notes that “we are not always in time to satisfy the last wishes of the dying” in describing how an author from here died begging for his spectacles. A green blot covers one lens of the distinctive round glasses of that author from this country on the cover of the 2017 New Directions edition of his best-known book, in which an assistant bookkeeper frequents the cafés of this country’s capital. 83 percent of voters cast blank ballots in the (*) sequel to a novel from this country. The author of The Book of Disquiet returns to this country in The Year of the Death of Ricardo Reis, a novel from this country whose author also wrote a book in which all the characters except the “doctor’s wife” are afflicted with the title ailment. For 10 points, Fernando Pessoa and the author of Seeing and Blindness, José Saramago, are from what Iberian country?
ANSWER: Portugal &lt;JH, European Literature&gt;

413.
ID: 159085  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 08 | Number: 12
TOSSUP: This region names an orchestral triptych with popular appeal, later arranged for band, whose movements “When Jesus Wept” and “Chester” are based on William Billings hymns; that piece is by William Schuman. Walter Piston wrote 3 Sketches and Edward MacDowell wrote 10 Idyls (“idles”) titled for this region; he, Horatio Parker, and Amy Beach were composers of this region’s “second school.” This region titles a triptych whose second movement opens with loud falling chromatic scales over cymbals, quotes patriotic (*) marching band tunes in different keys and meters, and ends with the “Star-Spangled Banner” resolving to a dissonant chord. “Putnam’s Camp” is the second movement of Charles Ives’s Orchestral Set No. 1, which is titled after “three places” in this region whose writers inspired Ives’s Concord Sonata. For 10 points, name this region home to Tanglewood Music Center and the Boston Symphony Orchestra.
ANSWER: New England [accept New England Triptych or Second New England School or Three Places in New England or New England Idyls or Three New England Sketches; prompt on United States or the Northeast] &lt;CK, Classical Music&gt;

414.
ID: 159086  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 08 | Number: 13
TOSSUP: A paper titled as a question about these things states that they may have a positive value if the supplier of these things acts as a monopoly provider of liquidity services. That paper by Robert Barro, which examines the value of these assets in an overlapping-generations model with finite lives, is titled, “Are [these things] Net Wealth?” According to the theory of (*) Ricardian equivalence, the issuing of these assets will cause consumers to immediately save more money, because they know that governments must raise taxes in the long run. Central banks buy and sell these financial assets on the open market in order to adjust the money supply as part of “open market operations.” For 10 points, name these securities sold by national governments to finance their spending.
ANSWER: government bonds [or sovereign bonds; accept Treasury bonds; accept government security or government securities until “securities” is read; prompt on government debt, public debt, national debt, or sovereign debt] &lt;WC, Social Science&gt;

415.
ID: 159082  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature World
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 08 | Number: 9
TOSSUP: This poet reflected “I need more grace than I thought” at the end of a poem that asks “the dissolver of sugar” to “do it suddenly like an execution.” This poet promised the reader “I’ll meet you there” in a poem about a field “out beyond ideas of wrongdoing and rightdoing.” This author reiterated his common metaphor of distinguishing the foam from the sea at the end of his version of the parable of men encountering an elephant in a dark room. The so-called translator Coleman Barks popularized a (*) collection by this author that begins by instructing “Listen to the story told by the reed” in its “Song of the Reed Flute.” This author collected his ghazals (“GUZZ-alls”) in a “Great Divan (“dih-VAN”)” dedicated to his teacher Shams of Tabrizi. For 10 points, name this Sufi Persian poet, the author of the Masnavi, or “Spiritual Couplets.”
ANSWER: Rūmī [or Jalal ad-Din Muhammad Balkhi; or Jalal ad-Din Muhammad Rumi; or Mowlana] &lt;JH, World/Other Literature&gt;

416.
ID: 159083  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 08 | Number: 10
TOSSUP: The shear flow around a thin-walled structure is the product of this quantity and local wall thickness. The magnitude of cyclic variation in this quantity is plotted against the number of cycles on S–N curves, which are used to estimate the fatigue life of materials. Tresca and von Mises (“fon MEE-ziss”) name thresholds of this quantity used as criteria for determining plastic failure, during which high values of this quantity may (*) [emphasize] induce “necking.” Components of this quantity are visualized on Mohr’s circle, and its “principal” types are eigenvalues of a tensor named for Cauchy (“koh-SHEE”). For a uniform rod, this quantity is tensile force over cross-sectional area. Inelastic deformation occurs when this quantity exceeds the yield strength. For 10 points, name this measure of internal forces for a material, the product of Young’s modulus and strain.
ANSWER: stress [or shear stress; or bending stress; or normal stress; or axial stress; prompt on sigma or tau; anti-prompt on fatigue strength or yield strength (until read) or endurance limit or fatigue limit by asking “which is a measure of what general quantity?”; do not accept “shear”] &lt;AP, Other Science: Engineering&gt;

417.
ID: 159108  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 09 | Number: 15
TOSSUP: Quantum analogs to these phenomena that involve a transverse field have been studied in lithium holmium fluoride. Renormalization group methods are used to find critical exponents that characterize these phenomena, and divide them into universality classes. A classification of these phenomena divides them into different (*) orders based on discontinuity of the free energy or one of its derivatives, but the modern system just classifies them as continuous or discontinuous. These phenomena are characterized by spontaneous symmetry breaking and a change in an order parameter, such as magnetization or density. These phenomena correspond to lines on pressure-temperature diagrams. For 10 points, name these phenomena where a material abruptly changes its microscopic properties, exemplified by liquid water changing to ice.
ANSWER: phase transitions [or phase changes; accept second-order phase transitions or continuous phase transitions or quantum phase transitions] &lt;GR, Physics&gt;

418.
ID: 159087  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 08 | Number: 14
TOSSUP: The Werthamer–Helfand–Hohenberg theory predicts the upper limit of one quantity for these materials. Andreev (“on-DRAY-eff”) bound states form at the boundary of these materials. Majorana (“ma-yo-RA-na”) zero modes that obey anyonic (“EN-ee-ON-ick”) statistics can arise in these systems thanks to electron-hole symmetry. Vortices in these materials enclose a quantized unit of magnetic flux in a theory developed by Abrikosov. One parameter that characterizes these materials is the ratio of lambda to the coherence length xi (“k’sigh”). Rare earth barium copper oxides including (*) YBCO (“ib-co”) are examples of these materials. The type II variety of these materials admit magnetic fields above a critical value, and thus do not exhibit the Meissner effect like type I examples of these materials. For 10 points, name these materials that allow current to flow with no resistance below their critical temperature.
ANSWER: superconductors [accept type II superconductors or type I superconductors] &lt;GR, Physics&gt;

419.
ID: 159084  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 08 | Number: 11
TOSSUP: In this city, merchants developed a form of financial partnership called a collegantia in which partners jointly raised capital, then split the resulting profits. The first printed Greek text, a grammar called the Erotemata by Constantine Lascaris, was published in this city by Aldus Manutius. Glassmakers in this city were forbidden to leave in order to protect the secrets of its glass industry at (*) Murano. An abandoned cannon foundry that housed this city’s Jewish population is sometimes thought to be the origin of the English word “ghetto.” This city had an early version of the assembly line at its namesake “Arsenal” that manufactured many galleys for this city’s navy. For 10 points, name this city-state that once dominated Mediterranean trade under the rule of its doges.
ANSWER: Venice [or Venezia] &lt;AE, European History&gt;

420.
ID: 159094  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Mythology | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 09 | Number: 1
TOSSUP: In some stories, the god who created the first of these people forgot to give them food, causing the first man to die. The Christian Trinity may have influenced the three identities of father, son, and brother ascribed to a god of these people, one of whose aspects was named Kon-Tiki. A goddess of these people, Cavillaca, became pregnant after ingesting the sperm of the moon god and then transformed herself into a (*) rock out of shame. The first king of these people emerged from Pacaritambo and was instructed to build a temple where his golden staff sunk into the ground. The most important festival for these people took place on the winter solstice and is called the Inti Raymi. For 10 points, Viracocha was the creator god of what pre-Columbian civilization whose capital was at Cusco?
ANSWER: Inca [or Incans] &lt;JS, Mythology&gt;

421.
ID: 159076  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History British
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 08 | Number: 3
TOSSUP: This monarch’s attempts to curtail “prophesyings,” a kind of study meeting for the clergy, caused the archbishop Edmund Grindal to fall out of favor. This monarch’s advisors entered into the Bond of Association, pledging that in the event of an assassination attempt, they would kill the assassin and the would-be claimant. Pius V excommunicated this monarch in the bull Regnans in Excelsis. This monarch was the target of the (*) Throckmorton Plot to place a Catholic cousin on the throne. In the Tilbury Speech given during the invasion of the Spanish Armada, this monarch proclaimed that “I know I have the body of a weak and feeble woman, but I have the heart and stomach of a king.” For 10 points, name this last Tudor monarch, who was called the “Virgin Queen.”
ANSWER: Elizabeth I &lt;AE, European History&gt;

422.
ID: 159077  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Other
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 08 | Number: 4
TOSSUP: A series of works by Liu Jianhua (“l’yoh j’yen-hwa”) at the Tate Modern consists of trompe-l’œil (“tromp-LOY”) imitations of this material made in porcelain. The work Untitled (Monuments) consists of stacks of this material that can be removed by the viewers and was created by an artist who also worked with piles of candy, Félix González-Torres. Robert Rauschenberg once glued 20 pieces of this material together for John Cage to drive over in his Model A car. The collection (*) Jazz contains The Snail and other works in this material that a wheelchair-bound Henri Matisse made in his last years. Items cut out of this material are glued on a surface in découpage (“day-koo-PAHZH”) artworks. For 10 points, name this material on which etchings and lithographs are printed.
ANSWER: paper [accept anything indicating printing, drawing, or tire marks on (white) paper] &lt;GR, Painting &amp; Sculpture&gt;

423.
ID: 159078  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 08 | Number: 5
TOSSUP: During a march that ends this play’s second act, a Euripides-quoting character gives the antagonist a trombone, telling him “blow, Machiavelli, blow.” That antagonist’s daughter compares him unfavorably to the whiskey distiller Bodger. In this play, the title character’s fiancée inherits the family business after revealing that, since his parents were married in Australia, he is technically a (*) foundling. In its second act, the ruffian Bill Walker strikes the volunteer Jenny Hill for refusing to return his newly-converted girlfriend, Mogg Abijam. In this play, Greek scholar Adolphus Cusins is engaged to the title daughter of arms manufacturer Andrew Undershaft. For 10 points, name this George Bernard Shaw play about a member of the Salvation Army.
ANSWER: Major Barbara &lt;CK, British Literature&gt;

424.
ID: 159075  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 08 | Number: 2
TOSSUP: High-precision voltammetry can be done using a film electrode made from this metal prepared on a silver or platinum substrate. A cathode of this metal is used at the bottom of an apparatus that produces elemental sodium or sodium hydroxide from sodium chloride solution. Polarography experiments are analogous to voltammetry but have a working electrode made of this metal that periodically “drops.” Though it’s not silver, a chloride of this metal is a component of a (*) “saturated” electrode used for measuring pH and as a reference electrode. This metal is commercially produced from the mineral cinnabar. Mixing this metal with other metals like gold or aluminum produces an amalgam. For 10 points, name this metal that is a silvery liquid at room temperature.
ANSWER: mercury [or Hg] &lt;GR, Chemistry&gt;

425.
ID: 159079  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 08 | Number: 6
TOSSUP: The vaccinia-based MVA85A was a failed vaccine for this disease. Bromine-containing bedaquiline (“bed-ACK-wuh-lin”) can be used to treat drug-resistant forms of this disease. Similarly, the drug delamanid inhibits mycolic acid synthesis needed for the cell walls of the causative agent of this disease. Extensively drug-resistant forms of this disease are impervious to fluoroquinolone antibiotics and may require chemotherapy. In addition to discovering anthrax, Robert Koch (“cock”) used guinea pigs to prove that this disease was infectious rather than inherited. The (*) BCG vaccine for this disease is based on a bovine strain of mycobacterium. This disease is often identified with a Mendel–Mantoux skin test or chest X-ray. For 10 points, name this bacterial disease that often affects the lungs, which was historically called consumption.
ANSWER: tuberculosis [or TB] &lt;GR, Biology&gt;

426.
ID: 159074  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 08 | Number: 1
TOSSUP: In a novel titled for one of these systems, it is revealed that the protagonist’s mother was bitten by a snake in a swamp while trying to return to her. In that novel, the news that black men and women employed at a Living History museum are, respectively, being injected with syphilis and sterilized prompts Cora to make use of one of these structures. Mr. Smooth-it away’s nostrils begin emitting smoke at the end of a Pilgrim’s Progress-inspired story by (*) Nathaniel Hawthorne set on a “celestial” one of these structures. Carl Sandburg called Chicago the “Player with” these structures, which are built by a company that fights with farmers in the San Joaquin Valley in Frank Norris’s The Octopus. For 10 points, what sort of structure literally takes slaves to freedom in a Colson Whitehead novel titled for the “Underground” one?
ANSWER: railroads [or train tracks; or equivalents; accept The Underground Railroad or “The Celestial Railroad”] &lt;JH, American Literature&gt;

427.
ID: 159071  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 07 | Number: 18
TOSSUP: Asterisks appear before the names of soon-to-die characters throughout a novel by this author in which a tour group on Santa Rosalia become the progenitors of a race of furry seal-like mammals. Another novel by this author climaxes with an artist’s explanation of the “unwavering band of light” in his abstract painting of Saint Anthony. After reading a book in which he is told, “You are the only creature in the entire Universe who has free will,” the (*) car salesman Dwayne Hoover goes on a violent rampage in that novel by this author. The author of that in-universe book, Kilgore Trout, is also referenced in a novel by this author in which Billy Pilgrim hides out in the title location and becomes “unstuck in time.” For 10 points, name this author of Galápagos, Breakfast of Champions, and Slaughterhouse-Five.
ANSWER: Kurt Vonnegut, Jr. &lt;JN, American Literature&gt;

428.
ID: 159072  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Other
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 07 | Number: 19
TOSSUP: Project 23 examines 23 boxes of dirt that were excavated near one of these locations during the construction of LACMA’s underground garage. W. W. Orcutt made the initial discoveries from one of these locations that are exhibited in the George C. Page Museum. Unusually, the H. petrolei fly lives in these toxic environments during its larval stage. Hancock Park surrounds one of these locations in the middle of (*) Los Angeles where many skeletal remains of mammals like dire wolves and saber-toothed cats have been found. For 10 points, name these geological features where bitumen rises to the surface, resulting in pools filled with natural asphalt, such as La Brea.
ANSWER: tar pits [or pitch lakes or asphalt pits or asphalt lakes] &lt;WC, Other&gt;

429.
ID: 159068  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 07 | Number: 15
TOSSUP: The encephalitis-causing powassan flavivirus is carried by this vector. These organisms are the vector for an allergy to alpha-gal that causes sufferers to not tolerate mammal meat. The genus Ixodes includes many examples of these organisms, which have hard dorsal plates. Species of rickettsia carried by these organisms can cause Helvetic and (*) Rocky Mountain spotted fever, a disease sometimes called this organism’s “typhus,” and other examples carry spirochetes in the genus Borrelia. These arthropods use their hypostome to penetrate the skin of other animals. For 10 points, name these arachnids, blood sucking parasites, some of which are carried by deer and transmit Lyme disease.
ANSWER: ticks [accept specific (hard) ticks such as (blacklegged) deer ticks or lone star ticks; accept tick typhus; accept Ixodes scapularis or other species of Ixodes until read; prompt on (class) acari; prompt on arachnids] &lt;GR, Biology&gt;

430.
ID: 159069  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 07 | Number: 16
TOSSUP: In this state, a group of fundamentalist Christians set up the “Spiritual Counterfeits Project” to launch lawsuits and distribute leaflets against new religious movements. That organization grew out of the “Jesus Movement” in this state, which also produced the evangelical Campus Crusade for Christ. A student activist in this state gave a speech encouraging listeners to “put your bodies upon the (*) gears” during a sit-in at Sproul Hall; that activist was Mario Savio of the Free Speech movement in this state. During the summer of 1967, this state saw thousands of young people converge upon the Haight Ashbury district as part of the “Summer of Love.” For 10 points, name this state that saw many countercultural protests during the 1960s at its public university in Berkeley.
ANSWER: California &lt;AE, American History&gt;

431.
ID: 159080  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 08 | Number: 7
TOSSUP: This person was described as having a “personality that had vanished into the roles it had played” in a Bancroft and Pulitzer-winning two-volume biography by Louis Harlan. A speech delivered by this person argued that “we can be as separate as the fingers, yet one as the hand in all things essential to mutual progress,” earning him criticism as an accommodationist from members of the (*) Niagara Movement. Deborah Davis’s Guest of Honor examines this man’s dinner with Teddy Roosevelt as the first African-American to dine in the White House. This man advised African-Americans to “Cast down your buckets where you are” as part of his “Atlanta Compromise.” For 10 points, name this African-American educator who founded the Tuskegee Institute.
ANSWER: Booker T. Washington [or Booker Taliaferro Washington] &lt;AE, American History&gt;

432.
ID: 159070  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 07 | Number: 17
TOSSUP: Charles Baudelaire described one of this painter’s works as a “terrifying hymn in honor of doom and irremediable suffering.” This artist repainted the sky of that canvas in response to the works of Constable on display at the Salon of 1824. That work by this artist includes two “human pyramid” motifs with a soldier on a rearing horse at the top of the right pyramid. One of this artist’s canvases was inspired by a (*) Byron poem in which Salemenes decries the luxury of the title character. Colorful works of this artist’s North African phase include The Women of Algiers. This artist depicted an allegorical figure of Greece inspired by the siege of Missolonghi, and also painted an Assyrian king lying on a giant red bed and Ottoman forces rampaging at Chios. For 10 points, name this French Romantic painter of The Death of Sardanapalus.
ANSWER: Eugène Delacroix &lt;GR, Painting &amp; Sculpture&gt;

433.
ID: 159066  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 07 | Number: 13
TOSSUP: An important source on this monarch’s reign is the wall inscriptions found on the “Chapelle Rouge” built by this monarch at Karnak. The architect Senenmut oversaw the construction of this monarch’s mortuary temple, the Djeser-Djeseru, as part of the necropolis at Deir el-Bahri. Reliefs at this monarch’s burial site depict a corpulent foreign queen named Ati, and soldiers accompanying a trade expedition to bring back gold and myrrh (“murr”) from the Land of (*) Punt. This monarch’s statues and monuments were defaced during the reign of Thutmose III, whom this monarch had initially served as regent and then co-ruler. This monarch was frequently depicted wearing a false beard. For 10 points, name this only woman to reign in her own right as pharaoh.
ANSWER: Hatshepsut [or Hatchepsut] &lt;AE, European History&gt;

434.
ID: 159073  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Mythology | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 07 | Number: 20
TOSSUP: Pausanias documented a belief that users of these objects were haunted by the ghost of a king of Pisa who died while using one. Erichthonius supposedly invented these things to hide his serpent feet. In Thessaly, a bronze one of these objects was ritually shaken to make rain, paralleling Salmoneus’s attachment of bronze cauldrons to one of these objects. Ovid wrote that one of these objects is threatened by the constellation (*) Scorpius, and also wrote that an incident involving that one of these objects is responsible for the dark complexion of Ethiopians. Myrtilus used beeswax to sabotage one of these objects belonging to King Oenomaus, allowing Pelops to win the hand of Hippodamia. For 10 points, Phaethon was killed by Zeus for losing control of what kind of vehicle that belonged to his father Helios?
ANSWER: chariots [accept chariots of the sun] &lt;JS, Mythology&gt; Bonuses

435.
ID: 159061  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 07 | Number: 8
TOSSUP: In Building the Rule of Law, Jennifer Widner examined how this country’s chief justice Francis Nyalali successfully organized an independent judiciary and multi-party elections. In this country, the ruling Chama Cha Mapinduzi party has held power since its establishment in 1977. Abeid Karume’s Afro-Shirazi Party launched a coup on an island sultanate that became part of this country, then massacred thousands of (*) Arabs in Stone Town. This country’s first president declared his support for socialism in the Arusha Declaration, after which he promulgated his socialist policies of “familyhood,” or ujamaa. For 10 points, name this country, which was first ruled by president Julius Nyerere in 1964 following a merger of Tanganyika and Zanzibar.
ANSWER: Tanzania [prompt on Zanzibar] &lt;AE, World History&gt;

436.
ID: 159060  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 07 | Number: 7
TOSSUP: These things are described as “absolute” in a book written by the so-called “American Clausewitz,” Bernard Brodie. Scott Sagan and Kenneth Waltz had a book-length debate about the efficacy of these things, which increase the likelihood of minor conflicts in the stability–instability paradox. In analyzing a situation involving these things, Thomas Schelling introduced the notion of (*) brinkmanship. While at the RAND Corporation, game theorist Herman Kahn wrote a book about these things that imagines a hypothetical “Doomsday Machine.” Their use is irrational because the user will face a retaliatory “second strike,” according to deterrence theory. For 10 points, name these weapons whose use Robert McNamara claimed would lead to mutually assured destruction.
ANSWER: nuclear weapons [or atomic weapons or nukes; accept specific types of nuclear weapons like atomic bombs or atomic missiles or fission bombs or hydrogen bombs or H-bombs; prompt on weapons or weapons of mass destruction or WMD; prompt on bombs or explosives or missiles or ICBMs] &lt;CK, Social Science&gt;

437.
ID: 159062  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Other
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 07 | Number: 9
TOSSUP: This artist designed a tower of light that projects from a marble base near Reykjavík and is surrounded by one million buried wishes that this artist collected via the “Wish Trees” project. This artist included “Event Scores,” such as a “touch poem” that simply reads “Touch each other,” in a book titled Grapefruit. A work by this artist instructs pairs of people to strip and enter a black bag together, recalling the philosophy of bagism that (*) she helped develop. This artist sat in a dress with scissors in front of her in a performance art piece that invited the audience to cut parts of the dress; that work is “Cut Piece.” The cover of “Double Fantasy” was reproduced by this artist and her nude husband in a photograph by Annie Leibovitz taken shortly before that husband’s death. For 10 points, name this artist who was widowed after John Lennon’s death.
ANSWER: Yoko Ono &lt;VS, Other Arts&gt;

438.
ID: 159057  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Philosophy | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 07 | Number: 4
TOSSUP: In a book about the “logic” of this work, David Gauthier (“GO-tee-ay”) used game theory to analyze an argument in it known as the “reply to the Fool.” Edwin Curley edited the popular Hackett edition of this book, which distinguishes between vital and voluntary motion in a discussion of the passions. This book’s introduction famously asserts, “life is but the motion of limbs,” and it presents nineteen principles of rational action called the (*) “laws of nature,” which it contrasts with the single “right of nature.” This book argues that, while there is no summum bonum or greatest good, the fear of death is the summum malum. Like its author’s earlier De Cive, this book characterizes the state of nature as a “war of all against all.” For 10 points, name this book that describes life as “solitary, poor, nasty, brutish, and short,” written by Thomas Hobbes.
ANSWER: Leviathan [or Leviathan: Or, The Matter, Forme and Power of a Common Wealth Ecclesiasticall and Civil] &lt;CK, Philosophy&gt;

439.
ID: 159058  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 07 | Number: 5
TOSSUP: Millie Dresselhaus pioneered spectroscopy of one compound of this element and was called the queen of this element. So-called peapods of this element could potentially be used for nanoscale lasers. One material composed of this element can be synthesized using xylene-based CVD with ferrocene or an iron-and-cobalt-coated catalyst support. The chiral angle of one form of this element, which can be produced by laser ablation, determines whether it takes a (*) zigzag or armchair structure. That form of this element comes in multi- and single-walled varieties. Another material composed of this element can be prepared via the “scotch tape method,” and consists of a single layer of hexagonally arranged atoms of this element. For 10 points, name this element that makes up graphene and namesake nanotubes.
ANSWER: carbon [accept carbon nanotubes] &lt;GR, Chemistry&gt;

440.
ID: 159056  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 07 | Number: 3
TOSSUP: During this war, Johann Georg Fuchs von Dornheim built a special “witch-prison” to torture and house accused witches as part of his witch-hunt in Bamberg. After his allies were defeated in this war’s Battle of Dessau, Christian IV was routed at the Battle of Lutter and forced to withdraw from this war. During this war, an army’s left flank routed opposing (*) tercios using an oblique order in the Battle of Breitenfeld. That battle in this war was won by a monarch who was assisted during this war by his chancellor Axel Oxenstierna (“ook-sen-SHWANN-ah”) before being killed at the Battle of Lützen by the forces of Albrecht von Wallenstein. For 10 points, Gustavus Adolphus of Sweden fought in what war between Protestants and Catholics in the Holy Roman Empire?
ANSWER: Thirty Years’ War &lt;AE, European History&gt;

441.
ID: 159063  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Religion | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 07 | Number: 10
TOSSUP: Along with taking care of the family and observing the laws of kashrut (“kosh-ROOT”), this action is one of three mitzvot (“meets-VOTE”) that is specially entrusted to women. During Yom Kippur and Rosh Hashanah, the names of those holidays are recited in the prayer for performing this action, whereas most other holidays use the generic phrase yom tov (“yome tove”). This action is done to mark the anniversary of a death in the (*) yahrzeit (“YORT-site”) ceremony. This action is done twice to represent the commandments of zachor (“za-KHOR”) and shamor (“sha-MOR”), which are to “remember” and “keep” the Sabbath. The shamash (“sha-MOSH”) is used to perform this action once per day, in a right-to-left direction, during a winter festival that is celebrated over eight days. For 10 points, name this action that is performed every night on Hanukkah in a menorah.
ANSWER: lighting a candle [or anything that indicates making a candle burn; accept more specific types of candle-lighting like lighting a menorah or lighting Shabbat candles; accept lehadlik ner] &lt;AE, Religion&gt;

442.
ID: 159054  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Math
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 07 | Number: 1
TOSSUP: A measure mu (“mew”) is said to have the absolute form of this property relative to a measure nu (“new”) if, for all measurable sets A, “nu of A equals zero” implies “mu of A equals zero.” The Cantor function has this property, but not the absolute form of this property. A function f between topological spaces has this property if, for all open subsets of the codomain, the inverse image of the subset under f is open. A function has this property at a point a if f-of-x (*) converges to f-of-a for all x that converge to a. Despite being differentiable nowhere, the Weierstrass (“VYE-ur-shtross”) function has this property for all real numbers. A function is smooth if all of its derivatives have this property. For 10 points, what property is possessed by functions whose graph can be drawn without lifting a pen from the paper?
ANSWER: continuity [or continuous; accept absolutely continuous during the first two sentences] &lt;AE, Other Science: Mathematics&gt;

443.
ID: 159052  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 06 | Number: 19
TOSSUP: This industry was used by Nicholas Kaldor in 1934 to illustrate his “cobweb model,” in which the quantity supplied by producers in one period depends on prices in previous periods. Book VII of Alfred Marshall’s Principles of Economics famously criticized a system of organization in this industry by reasoning that workers would not apply best effort if they receive only a (*) fraction of their output. That system of organization in this industry is often compared to a fixed-rent contract between tenant and landlord. Norman Borlaug won the Nobel Peace Prize for his efforts in improving inputs and techniques used in this industry that led to the worldwide “Green Revolution.” For 10 points, name this primary industry that involves the cultivation of crops.
ANSWER: agriculture [or farming; accept equivalents] &lt;WC, Social Science&gt;

444.
ID: 159055  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 07 | Number: 2
TOSSUP: Composer and genre required. The composer’s friend Charles Hoffmann suggested the simple, lento four-bar introduction to one of these pieces whose abrupt allegro con brio section’s noodly runs over A minor triads outline a long, descending chromatic scale. The right hand’s fortissimo G dominant seventh chord opens the twelfth of these pieces before the left hand plays stormy descending sixteenth notes. The first complete edition published by Alfred Cortot prefaces these pieces with copious (*) workouts for isolating difficulties. Besides the “three new” ones, they were published as Opus 10 and Opus 25. One of them opens with quick, dissonant minor seconds as if played by accident. These pieces include “Winter Wind” and one inspired by the November Uprising. For 10 points, name these pedagogical piano pieces, such as “Wrong Note” and “Revolutionary,” by a Polish composer.
ANSWER: piano études by Frédéric Chopin [prompt on partial answer; prompt on studies in place of “études”] &lt;CK, Classical Music&gt;

445.
ID: 159053  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Philosophy | Subcategory: Philosophy European
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 06 | Number: 20
TOSSUP: This philosopher argued that, since the soul is immaterial, humans would not exist as unities if there were a plurality of substantial forms. He held that human goodness was only akin to God’s goodness, arguing that predication is analogical. Philippa Foot popularized this thinker’s principle that an action with unforeseen negative consequences may still be permissible, known as the doctrine of (*) double effect. Albertus Magnus taught this thinker, who wrote a work that begins each response to an objection with the phrase “sed contra.” That work, which refers to Averroes as “The Commentator” and Aristotle as “The Philosopher,” presents five arguments for God’s existence. For 10 points, name this scholastic philosopher who wrote Summa Theologica.
ANSWER: Saint Thomas Aquinas &lt;CK, Philosophy&gt; Bonuses

446.
ID: 159064  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature European
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 07 | Number: 11
TOSSUP: A play written in this language that was described as “the greatest three-act hoax of the century” features a dancing man who fell through a funnel and nonsensical dialogues among characters named after body parts. This language, which was used to write The Gas Heart, was also used for a play in which a deaf-mute scribbles the word “ANGELFOOD” on a blackboard. In that play in this language, two characters bark like dogs at an invisible Emperor and commit suicide by (*) jumping out of a window, having spent the rest of the play rearranging the title objects. In another play in this language, the Fire Chief leaves a dinner party that devolves into a flurry of non-sequiturs shouted by the Smiths and the Martins. For 10 points, name this language used to write The Chairs and The Bald Soprano by the Romanian émigré Eugène Ionesco.
ANSWER: French [or Français] (The Gas Heart is by Tristan Tzara.) &lt;AP, European Literature&gt;

447.
ID: 159046  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 06 | Number: 13
TOSSUP: Esther Harding’s Woman’s Mysteries influenced this artist’s early paintings of The Moon Woman. Richard Taylor analyzed this artist’s works, including Alchemy, for fractal patterns, finding an increase in fractal dimension with time, indicating that this artist’s works became more chaotic. Allan Kaprow laid out the theory behind his Happenings in an essay titled for this man’s legacy. Hans Namuth (“NAY-mith”) photographed this artist’s (*) process at his Long Island studio. Lee Krasner introduced this artist to collector Peggy Guggenheim and critic Clement Greenberg, one of this artist’s early champions. This artist’s work often includes detritus like the nails and cigarette butts found in Full Fathom Five. For 10 points, name this artist of Lavender Mist famous for his action painting “drip” technique.
ANSWER: Jackson Pollock &lt;GR, Painting &amp; Sculpture&gt;

448.
ID: 159047  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 06 | Number: 14
TOSSUP: Late in his life, the “Black Prince of Perthshire” converted to this religion of his birth, years after he had been taken from his mother by John Login and converted to Christianity. Another monarch who followed this religion hired the French artillery officer Claude-Auguste Court (“klohd oh-goost KOOR”) and united twelve states called misls. That monarch who followed this religion defeated the Afghan king Zaman Shah to capture (*) Lahore, then declared himself a maharaja. At age 14, a leader of this religion named Hargobind was imprisoned at Gwalior Fort by Jahangir for being unable to pay a fine that was imposed on his father Arjan. For 10 points, the Dal Khalsa was the military of a Punjabi empire named after what religion, whose monarchs included Duleep Singh and Ranjit Singh?
ANSWER: Sikhism [or Sikhi; accept Sikh Empire] &lt;AE, World History&gt;

449.
ID: 159045  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 06 | Number: 12
TOSSUP: This essay ridicules those who quote saints and sages noting that “those roses under my window make no reference to former roses or to better ones.” After bemoaning “we are now a mob,” this essay’s author remarks, “I like the silent church before the service begins, better than any preaching.” When a friend suggests that its author’s “impulses may be from below, not from above,” he replies “if I am the Devil’s child, I will live then from the Devil.” This essay compares (*) society to a joint-stock company and argues that “whoso would be a man, must be a nonconformist,” echoing its author’s “Divinity School Address.” Stating that “a foolish consistency is the hobgoblin of little minds,” for 10 points, name this Ralph Waldo Emerson essay that advises “trust thyself.”
ANSWER: “Self-Reliance” &lt;CK, American Literature&gt;

450.
ID: 159043  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 06 | Number: 10
TOSSUP: It’s not the Kiowa (“KYE-oh-wuh”) tribe, but Garrick Mallery used references to “the year the stars fell” to date historical records produced by this tribe using the 1833 Leonid meteor shower. 38 members of this tribe were hanged at Mankato (“man-KAY-toh”) after a war in which hundreds of women, children, and elders from this tribe were interned at Fort Snelling. In that war, (*) Little Crow led this tribe against the US government. Another chief from this tribe ambushed US soldiers in the Fetterman Fight before signing the 1868 Treaty of Fort Laramie; that chief was Red Cloud. In another battle, the Cheyenne and this tribe completely destroyed the 7th Cavalry of George Armstrong Custer. For 10 points, what tribe won the Battle of Little Bighorn, led by Sitting Bull?
ANSWER: Sioux (“soo”) [accept Lakota or Dakota or Nakota; accept Santee or Yanktonai] &lt;AE, American History&gt;

451.
ID: 159044  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 06 | Number: 11
TOSSUP: Finding extremal areas of de Haas–van Alphen oscillations is one way to experimentally map a construct named for this scientist. This scientist is the first author and alphabetically earliest on a paper which found that chains of nonlinear oscillators were nearly exactly periodic rather than ergodic. With a Brit, this scientist names a theory which predicts that kinetic energy is proportional to electron density to the five-thirds power. The chemical potential required to add one (*) electron to a metal and the difference in energy between the highest and lowest occupied states are this man’s namesake “level” and “energy,” respectively. Identical particles with half-integer spin follow a distribution named for Dirac and this physicist. For 10 points, name this Italian physicist whose namesake particles obey the Pauli exclusion principle and include quarks and leptons.
ANSWER: Enrico Fermi &lt;VS, Physics&gt;

452.
ID: 159040  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 06 | Number: 7
TOSSUP: The NCLX protein imports 3 sodium ions to this organelle by removing 1 calcium ion, and this organelle imports calcium ions with its namesake calcium uniporter (“YOO-ni-porter”). When released from this organelle, the Smac/DIABLO protein can bind to IAPs. One protein that is typically bound to cardiolipin (“cardio-lipin”) in this organelle can bind to APAF-1 in the cytosol to form the apoptosome and activate (*) caspase-9. “Uncoupling” proteins such as thermogenin generate heat by decreasing the permeability of a membrane in this organelle. The release of cytochrome c from this organelle can initiate apoptosis, and that protein normally helps to create a proton gradient across this organelle’s inner membrane. For 10 points, name this organelle where the electron transport chain synthesizes ATP.
ANSWER: mitochondria [or mitochondrion] &lt;VS, Biology&gt;

453.
ID: 159048  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Current Events | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 06 | Number: 15
TOSSUP: A legislator from this state, Ibraheem Samirah, was attacked as anti-Semitic for making a 2014 Facebook post saying that Ariel Sharon (“ah-ree-EL sha-ROHN”) “should burn a million times for every innocent soul” he killed. Another legislator from this state was called “Really, Really Boring” in a New York Times op-ed because of her emphasis on fixing Route 28. That state legislator was (*) Danica Roem, who became this state’s first transgender legislator in 2017. After the 2017 midterm elections, the Republicans retained control of this state’s legislature following a literal name-drawing from a bowl. In January 2019, this state’s governor was found to have taken a medical school yearbook picture with a man wearing blackface and another wearing KKK robes. For 10 points, name this state whose 2017 gubernatorial election was won by the embattled Democrat Ralph Northam.
ANSWER: Virginia &lt;JH, Other&gt;

454.
ID: 159037  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 06 | Number: 4
TOSSUP: Louise Labé’s first sonnet, “The Sting,” opens by stating that “Never was [this man] more struck by so divine an aspect” as that seen by the speaker. An episode in this man’s story is reimagined in Sonnet 189 of Petrarch, in which “ready, cruel” thoughts propel an object “laden with forgetfulness.” In another poem, this man recalls being swallowed up by a “booming billow” after catching sight of a lofty mountain beyond the pillars of Hercules. This person is told “As you set (*) out… / hope the voyage is a long one, / full of adventure, full of discovery” in a poem titled for his homeland by Constantine Cavafy. In Canto 26 of Inferno, Dante encounters this man bound in a single flame with Diomedes. For 10 points, the vow “To strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield” ends a Lord Tennyson poem titled for what wiley protagonist of a Homeric epic?
ANSWER: Ulysses [or Odysseus] &lt;JB, European Literature&gt;

455.
ID: 159034  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Religion | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 06 | Number: 1
TOSSUP: Paul Brunton popularized the work of a scholar from this modern-day country who pioneered a method of deliberation called “self-enquiry.” A scholar from this country, who founded a monastery in each cardinal direction, advocated monism and argued that “ultimate reality is without parts or attributes.” A religious tradition from this country was introduced to America at the 1893 (*) Parliament of the World’s Religions by a scholar of one of this country’s six “orthodox,” or āstika (“AH-stih-kuh”) schools of philosophy. The expression “that thou art,” or “tat tvam asi,” (“tuht twam UH-see”) is a philosophical statement from this country that was interpreted by a teacher of Advaita Vedānta (“ud-VYE-tuh vay-DAHN-tuh”), Ādi Śankara (“AH-dee SHUN-kuh-ruh”), who wrote commentaries on the Upanishads (“oo-puh-nih-shuds”). For 10 points, name this country, the birthplace of Hinduism.
ANSWER: India [or Bhārat] (The unnamed scholars are, in order, Ramana Maharshi, Ādi Śankara, and Swāmi Vivekānanda.) &lt;AP, Religion&gt;

456.
ID: 159038  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Mythology | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 06 | Number: 5
TOSSUP: Description acceptable. In a short poem, the question of why this place’s benches are “bright with rings” and its platforms “bedecked with gold” is posed. In that poem, that god travels to the eastern door of this place in disguise as Vegtam (“VEGG-tahm”) to get a volva’s interpretation of some dreams. Another god rides through valleys for nine days and nights to reach the gold-roofed bridge over the (*) river Gjöll (“gyull”) that leads to this location, where he is challenged by the giantess Modgud. The ruler of this place announces a requirement that every living thing weep for one of its residents to Hermod, who had travelled to this place on Sleipnir. The dog Garm guards this place. A handsome god goes to this place after being struck by a mistletoe spear. For 10 points, name this cold realm ruled by a namesake goddess, where Baldr goes after dying in Norse myth.
ANSWER: Hel [accept equivalents of the Norse underworld; accept Niflheim or Niflhel; prompt on the underworld or equivalents] &lt;JS, Mythology&gt;

457.
ID: 159081  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Religion | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 08 | Number: 8
TOSSUP: This figure is called by the epithet khannās (“khun-NASS”), meaning “the one who withdraws,” in the final surah of the Quran, which also describes his “whispers.” In the Surah al-Araf, this figure declares that he will “sit in ambush on Your straight path” and assault people “in front and from behind, from their right and their left.” That takes place after this figure refuses to bow to (*) Adam because this figure was made of fire, and Adam was made of mud. This figure was said to have inspired a namesake set of verses encouraging the worship of three pagan goddesses. This figure is called rajīm, or “stoned,” in the Quran, and is the subject of a ritual “stoning” during the hajj. For 10 points, name this fallen, adversarial being in Islam who tempts people to do wrong.
ANSWER: Satan [or Shaitan; or Iblis; or the Devil] &lt;WC, Religion&gt;

458.
ID: 159065  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 07 | Number: 12
TOSSUP: Applying the Jensen inequality to a result derived by Jarzynski (“YAR-zhin-ski”) leads to this statement. The fluctuation theorem addresses situations when this statement is violated and explains that it holds on average. This statement is hard to derive from microscopic principles according to (*) Loschmidt’s paradox. Perpetual motion machines that convert heat into motion are consistent with conservation of energy but violate this principle. One statement of this principle disallows spontaneous heat flow from a cold object to a warm object, and an equivalent statement of this law says that that no process can fully convert heat to work. For 10 points, name this law that requires the entropy of an isolated system to always increase.
ANSWER: second law of thermodynamics [accept statements of the second law such as entropy always increases; prompt on partial answer; prompt on irreversibility] &lt;GR, Physics&gt;

459.
ID: 159109  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 09 | Number: 16
TOSSUP: This general offered to pardon Friedrich Staps after Staps attempted to assassinate this general, but Staps refused, claiming that “To kill you would not have been a crime, but a duty!” That failed assassination attempt on this general followed a campaign in which this general was defeated while attempting to cross the Danube in the Battle of Aspern-Essling, then defeated (*) Archduke Charles at the Battle of Wagram. This monarch set up the Confederation of the Rhine, which was acknowledged by Alexander I of Russia in the Treaties of Tilsit. This monarch had earlier defeated an alliance of Alexander I of Russia and Francis I of Austria during the War of the Third Coalition. For 10 points, name this French emperor who won the Battle of Austerlitz.
ANSWER: Napoleon Bonaparte [accept either underlined part; or Napoleon I] &lt;AE, European History&gt;

460.
ID: 159039  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History Other
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 06 | Number: 6
TOSSUP: The Glasgow (“GLAZZ-goh”) Gallery of Modern Art occupies a mansion formerly owned by William Cunningham, one of several merchant “lords” of this good based in 18th-century Glasgow. Thomas Willis claimed that no sellers of this good were infected during the Great Plague of London, during which this good was thought to prevent disease. This good was criticized in a (*) “counterblaste” by James I, which questioned why his countrymen would adopt the “barbarous and beastly manners of the wild, godless, and slavish Indians.” A mild and sweet strain of this crop was crossbred by the husband of Pocahontas, John Rolfe, who began the cultivation of this crop in the Jamestown colony. For 10 points, name this cash crop that was the major export of colonial Maryland and Virginia.
ANSWER: tobacco [or Nicotiana tabacum; anti-prompt on particular products like cigarettes, cigars, snuff, etc.] &lt;AE, European History&gt;

461.
ID: 159032  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 05 | Number: 19
TOSSUP: A process named for these materials that results in rigidity proceeds through a vastly degenerate free energy landscape. The Krogh–Moe model describes boron-based examples of this material, which were investigated for bioactive applications. The structure of this material can be described by a random network theory of ionic polyhedra developed by W. H. Zachariasen, based on X-ray studies of this material. A spike in heat capacity measured with DCS indicates a transition named for this material. (*) Potash (“pot-ash”) and lead oxide are common additives used in the manufacture of this amorphous material. For 10 points, obsidian is a naturally occurring form of what amorphous material made from molten sand with blowing techniques?
ANSWER: glass [accept silicate glasses or borate glasses; accept glass transition (temperature); prompt on amorphous materials in the first sentence] &lt;GR, Chemistry&gt;

462.
ID: 159049  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Other
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 06 | Number: 16
TOSSUP: LBV stars are slightly above the empirical Humphreys–Davidson limit for this quantity and undergo violent mass loss events due to their high value of this variable. An upper bound for this quantity can be derived by considering a star in hydrostatic equilibrium between gravitational and (*) radiation pressure and is named for Eddington. This quantity often scales with mass to the 3.5 power, and the log of period can be used to calculate this quantity for a type of star studied by Henrietta Leavitt (“LEV-it”). This value for standard candles can be inferred from measurements, allowing one to determine distance based on apparent magnitude, and it appears on the y-axis of an HR diagram. For 10 points, name this quantity that measures how much light a star produces.
ANSWER: luminosity [accept absolute magnitude; prompt on magnitude or brightness or descriptive answers indicating how much light an object emits or produces] &lt;GR, Other Science: Astronomy&gt;

463.
ID: 159025  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 05 | Number: 12
TOSSUP: Herbert Yardley was appointed as head of a bureau for this task that was defunded by the Secretary of State Henry Stimson. A woman named Gene Grebel was hired to lead the Venona project for this task. That project took place at Arlington Hall, where many female college students were employed in this task using (*) “bombe” machines during World War II. Joseph Rochefort’s successful efforts in this task at Station HYPO helped predict an imminent Japanese attack on Midway. In England, Alan Turing worked on this task at Bletchley Park as part of an effort to understand the Enigma system, which was used by Nazi Germany to communicate securely. For 10 points, name this task in which analysts gather intelligence by finding ways to read encrypted messages.
ANSWER: codebreaking [or cryptanalysis or decryption or decoding; accept cryptography; accept signals intelligence or SIGINT; prompt on reading messages or intercepting messages; prompt on intelligence, espionage, or equivalents for spying by asking “what specific kind of intelligence is being done?”; do not accept or prompt on “encryption,” “encoding,” “code-talking,” or anything that suggests hiding a message] &lt;AE, American History&gt;

464.
ID: 159024  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 05 | Number: 11
TOSSUP: The final section of this composer’s oratorio begins “Welten singen Dank und Ehre” (“VELT-in ZING-in DONK oont AY-ruh”), and is often performed as a Hallelujah Chorus. Warlike drums and trumpets twice interrupt the B minor Agnus Dei of a mass above whose middle section this composer wrote “Prayer for inner and outer peace.” He reused his song Gegenliebe (“GAY-gun-LEE-buh”) for a fantasy whose long solo piano intro modulates from C minor to C major. A mighty 4/4 fugue accompanies the words “In gloria Dei patris, Amen” in his second mass, in (*) D major, whose Gloria and Sanctus were posthumously premiered in Russia thanks to his patron Prince Galitzin. He composed one oratorio, Christ on the Mount of Olives, premiered his own Choral Fantasy, and revised and set Schiller’s poem “An die Freude” (“on dee FROY-duh”). For 10 points, name this composer of the Missa Solemnis and the “Choral” Ninth Symphony.
ANSWER: Ludwig van Beethoven &lt;AE, Classical Music&gt;

465.
ID: 159026  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 05 | Number: 13
TOSSUP: For the electromagnetic field, this quantity is a contraction of the field strength tensor plus a matter interaction term, and its invariance under Lorentz transforms implies that Maxwell’s equations are consistent with special relativity. Generalized momenta are derivatives of this quantity with respect to generalized coordinates. When this quantity has continuous symmetries, Noether’s (“NUR-tuh’s”) theorem gives conserved quantities, such as conservation of energy when this quantity does not depend explicitly on time. This quantity is integrated to find the (*) action, which is minimized in Hamilton’s principle. The calculus of variations is used to derive equations of motion from this quantity; those equations are named for Euler and the namesake of this quantity. For 10 points, name this quantity from classical mechanics equal to kinetic minus potential energy, named for a French mathematician.
ANSWER: Lagrangian [accept Lagrangian density] &lt;GR, Physics&gt;

466.
ID: 159021  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 05 | Number: 8
TOSSUP: This organism codes for an LRR receptor-like kinase that detects flagellin with the FLS2 gene. The GLH gene is required for trichome (“TRY-kohm”) development in this organism. The APETALA3 (“APP-uh-tah-luh-3”) gene in this organism is regulated by a gene that codes for a zinc finger transcription factor called SUPERMAN. The vacuum infiltration method is used to transform this organism using the Agrobacterium tumefaciens, which causes crown galls. This organism’s purported non-Mendelian inheritance pattern was shown by crossing parents with mutated copies of the (*) HOTHEAD gene; that gene typically encodes a protein involved in carpel formation in this organism. For 10 points, the ABC model of flower development was created by observing what plant model organism also known as thale cress?
ANSWER: Arabidopsis thaliana [accept Arabidopsis; accept thale cress until read] &lt;VS, Biology&gt;

467.
ID: 159022  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Religion | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 05 | Number: 9
TOSSUP: In the preface to a collection of these works, the author encourages the reader to be like “eight-armed Nata” instead of a person who watches a speedy horseman pass by from a narrow window. In one of these works from that collection, a man is asked about his “original face” before his parents were born. In another of these works, Joshu is told (*) “mu,” which literally means “nothing” or “nothingness,” when asked whether a dog has Buddha-nature. These works, which are often used in the Rinzai school, are compiled in volumes called the Blue Cliff Record and The Gateless Gate. Línjì composed one of these works that states, “If you meet the Buddha, kill him.” For 10 points, name these short, paradoxical statements used to assist meditation in Zen Buddhism.
ANSWER: koans [or gōng’àn] &lt;WC, Religion&gt;

468.
ID: 159019  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 05 | Number: 6
TOSSUP: In a film set in this country that uses many long takes, the protagonist’s daily routine is disrupted when she realizes that her potatoes have been on the stove for too long. That film, in which the title character murders her client using scissors after she experiences an orgasm, was directed by Chantal Akerman, a native of this country. In another film set in this country, a dwarf is killed on a film set reminiscent of (*) Bosch’s Last Judgment. That film, in which two London hitmen go to the title town in this country and wait for orders, was the directorial debut of Martin McDonagh. For 10 points, name this country that provides the setting for Jeanne Dielman, 23, quai du Commerce, 1080 Bruxelles (“zhun d’yell-MAWN, van-TWAH kay du ko-MAIRCE, meel-cat-VAN broo-SELL”), as well as In Bruges (“broozh”).
ANSWER: Belgium [or Belge or België] &lt;NC, Other Arts&gt;

469.
ID: 159027  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Philosophy | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 05 | Number: 14
TOSSUP: In one paper, this thinker argued that theories are ontologically committed to entities that appear as bound variables of their quantifiers. In that paper, he attacked the fictional philosopher McX who argues that Pegasus is an idea in the mind, and described a problem “frequently dulled on Ockham’s razor.” He analogized science to a “web of belief” whose “boundary conditions are experience” in a paper which argues that (*) synonymy cannot be defined as interchangeability. This thinker, who discussed the problem of “Plato’s beard” in “On What There Is,” criticized Rudolf Carnap for attempting to reduce meaning to talk about sense-data. For 10 points, name this philosopher who attacked the analytic–synthetic distinction in “Two Dogmas of Empiricism.”
ANSWER: W. V. O. Quine [or Willard Van Orman Quine] &lt;CK, Philosophy&gt;

470.
ID: 159016  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 05 | Number: 3
TOSSUP: Don Kulick explored how transgender prostitution shaped gender norms in this country in his book Travesti. In a seminal 1993 ethnography, a thinker argued that mothers in this country hastened the deaths of infants they perceived as lacking the “knack” or “taste” for life. In addition to that ethnography, Death Without Weeping, a myth from this country about a boy who rapes his mother and is then forced by his father to perform a series of tasks, such as capturing a macaw, is labeled M1 and is presented as the “key myth” in The (*) Raw and the Cooked. Claude Lévi-Strauss extensively studied the Bororo people in this country, where Nancy Scheper-Hughes did fieldwork in shantytowns called favelas. For 10 points, the Pirahã and the Tupi are indigenous to what South American country that contains most of the Amazon?
ANSWER: Brazil [or Brasil] &lt;CK, Social Science&gt;

471.
ID: 159014  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 05 | Number: 1
TOSSUP: This non-Shakespearean character exclaims “A horse – A horse – A kingdom for my horse!” during a battle in which he fights alongside Chinese emperors and hussars. This character’s teeth and jaw are violently broken by a character who later gives him a weapon with which he cuts off the seven heads of an adversary. Alexandre Dumas removed darker elements from the story in which this character appears. This character, believed to be an (*) incarnation of Drosselmeyer’s nephew, is saved from an attack by a girl who throws a slipper at his opponent. Maria’s parents deny that she saw this character leading an army into battle against the Mouse King. For 10 points, name this toy who comes alive in an E. T. A. Hoffmann story that inspired a Tchaikovsky ballet.
ANSWER: the Nutcracker [or Der Nussknacker] &lt;AP, European Literature&gt;

472.
ID: 159017  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Computer Science
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 05 | Number: 4
TOSSUP: General-purpose APIs for these things, like CUDA, let developers define functions called “kernels” that are executed in parallel by several different threads when called. The cuDNN library is used with these things to implement deep neural networks and accelerate frameworks like Tensorflow. These devices execute a kind of program with “fragment” and “vertex” types called a (*) shader. Shaders are executed as part of a pipeline in which these devices perform rasterization and output color information to framebuffers. The open-source API OpenGL is used to interface with these devices; another such API is Microsoft’s DirectX. For 10 points, name these specialized processors manufactured by companies like AMD and Nvidia, used to render images for display.
ANSWER: GPUs [or graphics processing units or GPGPU; accept video cards or graphics cards; prompt on processors] &lt;WC, Other Science: Computer Science&gt;

473.
ID: 159011  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Religion | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 04 | Number: 18
TOSSUP: A philosopher from this place coined the phrase “sober intoxication” to describe divine possession in On Flight and Finding; that philosopher also allegorically interpreted scripture in On the Creation. A king of this place is traditionally credited with commissioning 72 scholars to translate the Septuagint. In a biblical narrative, a man hid a silver cup in his youngest (*) brother’s sack to frame his brothers for stealing, after they had come to this place to buy grain during a famine. According to that narrative, the “land of Goshen” in this place was settled by the Jews after this place’s ruler was given advice to prevent a famine by Joseph, who had been sold into slavery in this place by his brothers. For 10 points, name this place where, according to the Bible, the Jews lived in captivity prior to the Exodus.
ANSWER: Egypt [accept Alexandria until “silver” is read, and anti-prompt afterwards; prompt on North Africa] (The philosopher in the first line is Philo of Alexandria.) &lt;WC, Religion&gt;

474.
ID: 159012  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 04 | Number: 19
TOSSUP: The artist of this series imagined it as a project that would “be enlarged to fill the vault of the sky.” The artist used an oak base topped by a circular mirror in a work often paired with this series, Fish, while this series itself developed out of a set of works depicting a magical creature from a fairy tale, the Măiastra (“muh-YAHSS-trah”) series. Three works in this series were purchased by the Maharaja of Indore for his never-completed (*) Temple of Meditation. When Edward Steichen attempted to exhibit one of the works in this series in the US, customs classified it as “Kitchen Utensils and Hospital Supplies.” This series depicts the title creature as a streamline, removing the beak and wings. For 10 points, name these Constantin Brâncuși (“brin-KOOSH”) sculptures depicting the essence of flight.
ANSWER: Bird in Space [or L’Oiseau dans l’espace] &lt;CK, Other Arts&gt;

475.
ID: 159008  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 04 | Number: 15
TOSSUP: In a poem set during this type of event, a stranger plays a piano upon arriving at a saloon and enters a fatal duel with Lou’s boyfriend. The protagonist of a novel set during this type of event is called “one in ten t’ousand” by Perrault and is violently beaten by the “man in the red sweater.” In a novel, Beauty Smith gets Grey Beaver drunk so that he can buy the (*) title character at a low price during this type of event, during which the narrator of a Robert Service poem cremates his “frozen chum” Sam McGee. John Thornton liberates the protagonist of a novel from his job as transportation for panners during this type of event. For 10 points, Jack London’s White Fang and Call of the Wild are set during what sort of event, in which Buck serves as a sled dog for prospectors in the Yukon?
ANSWER: gold rushes [accept Klondike gold rush or Yukon gold rush] (The first poem mentioned is “The Shooting of Dan McGrew.”) &lt;AP, American Literature&gt;

476.
ID: 159018  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature World
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 05 | Number: 5
TOSSUP: An author from this country depicted himself as a chain-smoking 23-year-old who dances with the protagonist’s lover at an engagement party held at a Hilton. The Border City Gazette prints predictions of future events in a novel from this country in which a murder committed at a pastry shop is caught on a hidden tape recorder. An assassin steals poems by an expatriate from this country from a Frankfurt apartment. An author from this country wrote a novel in which the protagonist (*) saves artifacts such as matchbooks and postcards that remind him of Füsun, and a novel in which a staging of the play My Fatherland or My Head Scarf is followed by a staged military coup. A novel from this country opens with the poet Ka travelling to Kars in a snowstorm. For 10 points, The Museum of Innocence and Snow are by what country’s author Orhan Pamuk?
ANSWER: Turkey [or Türkiye] &lt;GR, World/Other Literature&gt;

477.
ID: 159028  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 05 | Number: 15
TOSSUP: A member of this family has a nightmare in which a crowd of people force her to dive into a swimming pool to retrieve a can of coffee. That character’s brother angrily argues with this family’s mother Bessie after she interrupts him reading a script in the bathtub. A member of this family faints in a restaurant after describing a book about a Russian peasant’s quest to learn how to pray without ceasing to her disinterested boyfriend (*) Lane Coutell. The first member of this family to appear on the quiz show “It’s a Wise Child” commits suicide after telling the young Sybil Carpenter a story about creatures that gorge themselves to death in “A Perfect Day for Bananafish.” For 10 points, Franny, Zooey, and Seymour are members of what family created by J. D. Salinger?
ANSWER: the Glass family &lt;CK, American Literature&gt;

478.
ID: 159004  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 04 | Number: 11
TOSSUP: After this event, an anonymous police officer identified as “Sniper Two” admitted during an investigation that he was “not a sharpshooter.” Prior to this event, the psychologist George Sieber devised “Scenario 21,” closely predicting this event. A speech given after this event by Avery Brundage compared this event to losing “the Rhodesian battle against naked political blackmail.” This event led to the founding of (*) GSG-9. In response to this attack, Operation Wrath of God was authorized by Golda Meir. The leader of this attack, who went by the name “Issa,” was Luttif Afif, a member of Black September. For 10 points, name this attack by Palestinian terrorists that killed eleven members of the Israeli team during the 1972 Olympics held in West Germany.
ANSWER: Munich massacre [or equivalents indicating a terrorist attack in Munich; accept Munich Summer Olympics; accept 1972 Summer Olympics until “1972” is read; prompt on Black September attack] &lt;WC, European History&gt;

479.
ID: 159005  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Computer Science
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 04 | Number: 12
TOSSUP: Stefan Lucks invented the “wide-pipe” method for constructing these things that makes use of a larger internal state. Andrei Broder invented a “Min” algorithm for estimating the similarity of sets by generating these things from sets that are viewed as columns of a matrix; that is a “locality-sensitive” method for generating these things. Linear and quadratic (*) probing are open addressing methods that involve repeatedly adding to one of these values. These values are used to track and differentiate Git commits. Separate chaining is a method of resolving “collisions” between these values in a namesake data structure. For 10 points, name these values that are used for constant-time lookup in namesake tables.
ANSWER: hashes [or hash codes; or hash values; or digests; accept Git hashes or cryptographic hashes; accept hash function; accept hash table or hash map] &lt;VS, Other Science: Computer Science&gt;

480.
ID: 159002  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 04 | Number: 9
TOSSUP: A member of this movement claims to have stolen a policeman’s helmet after being blackmailed with the word “Eulalie.” Maurice puts a Beethoven string quartet on the gramophone before suicidally answering the door for members of this movement in the novel Point Counter Point. Roderick Spode in the Jeeves novels is a parody of a leader of this movement whose marriage to Diana Mitford is depicted in her sister Jessica’s memoir Hons and Rebels. Joyce Emily Hammond goes abroad to (*) fight for this ideology at the behest of a teacher who calls her students the “crème de la crème” in Muriel Spark’s The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie. Lord Darlington’s apparent support for this ideology is a recurring theme in Kazuo Ishiguro’s The Remains of the Day. For 10 points, name this movement whose British supporters often idolized Benito Mussolini.
ANSWER: British fascism [or Nazism; or the British Union of Fascists; accept the Black Shorts or Falangism] &lt;JH, British Literature&gt;

481.
ID: 159000  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 04 | Number: 7
TOSSUP: Chromaticism abounds in this classical symphony, as its first movement’s development begins with a series of sinking half-step modulations with F-sharp minor first, and its finale’s development begins with a halting, jagged passage that uses every pitch but the tonic. In the opening of this symphony’s finale, which is its third movement to be in sonata form, quick, loud tutti chords on 5–1–5–1–5–1 answer the violins’ soft Mannheim rockets. This symphony opens with low strings chugging below the violins’ agitated, thrice-repeated sigh E-flat D D. (*) This symphony is linked to “storm and stress” due to its key and the composer’s turmoil, debt, and misfortune as, despite a burst of inspiration, plans to premiere his last 3 symphonies in summer 1788 fell through. Symphony No. 25 is the “Little” counterpart of this second of two minor-key symphonies by its composer, which precedes the Jupiter Symphony. For 10 points, name this second-to-last symphony by Mozart.
ANSWER: Symphony No. 40 by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart [or Mozart 40; or Great G minor Symphony; accept Große g-Moll-Sinfonie; accept K. 550 or KV 550; prompt on partial answer, but accept 40 after “Mozart” is read; prompt on Symphony in G minor by Mozart; prompt on Mozart’s penultimate symphony] &lt;OL, Classical Music&gt;

482.
ID: 158997  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Philosophy | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 04 | Number: 4
TOSSUP: Elizabeth Anscombe argued that this statement erroneously assumes that speakers use an indexical in this statement to name objects in her paper “The First Person.” Bernard Williams argued that this statement expresses a “relation of presupposition” in a book he wrote about its author’s “project of pure enquiry.” In discussing this statement, which is presented as a paradigm example of an idea that is both “clear and distinct,” its formulator defines (*) himself as sum res cogitans. In one work, shortly after making this statement, its author uses the example of melting wax to argue that we can have knowledge of matter. Its creator described this statement as his first item of knowledge that survives his method of doubt in Discourse on Method. For 10 points, name this principle that forms the foundation of René Descartes’s epistemology.
ANSWER: cogito, ergo sum [or I think, therefore I am; or je pense, donc je suis] &lt;CK, Philosophy&gt;

483.
ID: 159001  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 04 | Number: 8
TOSSUP: Atoms of this group are used in optically probed vapors in devices for high-precision magnetic field measurement. Nickel–iron batteries use the hydroxide of an element from this group as an electrolyte. Since normal soap doesn’t work with seawater, the salts of another element in this group are used in “sailor’s soap.” In decay chains useful for mineral dating, elements from this group decay to strontium-87 and the most commonly found isotope of argon. Common (*) yellow outdoor lamps use the vapor of an element from this group. A cation of one element from this group forms oxidizing agents with permanganate and nitrate ions; the latter compound is called saltpeter. The mineral halite contains the cation of an element of this group. For 10 points, name this group containing the elements potassium and sodium.
ANSWER: alkali metals [or Group 1; accept Group IA; accept lithium group or lithium family] &lt;GR, Chemistry&gt;

484.
ID: 159006  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 04 | Number: 13
TOSSUP: A Life magazine article on this artist infamously asked “Is He the Worst Artist in the U.S.?” This artist’s Painting With Statue of Liberty, his Magna on canvas work Little Big Painting, and sculptures located outside the Portland Art Museum and the Hirshhorn exemplify one of his later-period motifs. That series by this artist parodies abstract expressionism by depicting darkly-outlined, dripping brushstrokes. This artist of Image Duplicator depicted a (*) woman who decides to sink rather than call Brad for help in a painting that, like his depiction of Donald Duck exclaiming “I’ve hooked a big one!”, exemplifies his use of Ben Day dots and comic book sources. For 10 points, name this American pop artist of Drowning Girl, Look Mickey, and Whaam!
ANSWER: Roy Lichtenstein &lt;GR, Painting &amp; Sculpture&gt;

485.
ID: 158993  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 03 | Number: 20
TOSSUP: The “Ordinary Lives” of six people who fled from this country was the subject of the book Nothing to Envy by the Los Angeles Times journalist Barbara Demick. The Irish politician Sean Garland was arrested in 2005 for suspicion of circulating counterfeit “supernotes” from this country. In this country, a secretive government agency called “Office (*) 39” obtains hard currency through illegal activities. The 1999 book Eyes of the Tailless Animals is a memoir of a woman’s experience of surviving this country’s reeducation camps for political prisoners. Mike Pence warned this country not to “hijack” the Olympics after this country announced that it would send a delegation to the 2018 Winter Olympics. For 10 points, name this country ruled from Pyongyang by Kim Jong-Un.
ANSWER: North Korea [or DPRK or DPR Korea or Democratic People’s Republic of Korea or Chosŏn Minjujuŭi Inmin Konghwaguk; prompt on Korea; do not accept or prompt on “Republic of Korea” or “ROK”] &lt;JH, Other&gt; Bonuses

486.
ID: 158992  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 03 | Number: 19
TOSSUP: This composer’s early pieces for violin and guitar include a sonata concertata and 14 variations on the French revolutionary song “La Carmagnole.” The theme of the last piece in this composer’s Opus 1 begins [read slowly] long A, short A A C B A, then high E. This composer’s Le Streghe is a set of variations based on the popular “Witches’ Dance” from a ballet by Franz Süssmayr. The third movement rondo of this composer’s Violin Concerto No. 2 in B minor is (*) nicknamed, due to its repeatedly ringing F-sharps, “La Clochette” or “La Campanella.” This gaunt composer with a meaty ravioli recipe cultivated legends about his devilry and unmatched technical ability. Themes by this composer inspired six piano études by Liszt and a Rhapsody by Sergei Rachmaninoff. For 10 points, name this first great Romantic virtuoso who composed 24 caprices for violin.
ANSWER: Niccolò Paganini &lt;JS, Classical Music&gt;

487.
ID: 158994  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 04 | Number: 1
TOSSUP: Antral vascular ectasia in this organ gives it a watermelon-like appearance. This organ is the most common location of MALT lymphomas and carcinomas where mucins push the nucleus to the edge of the cells, giving them a “signet ring” appearance. CCK-B receptors regulate the activity of cells in this organ. Ménétrier’s (“may-nay-tree-AY’s”) disease causes (*) achlorhydria (“ay-klor-HY-dree-uh”) in the cells of this organ. Intrinsic factor is produced by parietal cells in this organ. The vagus nerve can induce activity in this organ’s zymogen-producing chief cells. H. pylori causes ulcers in this organ. Pepsinogen is activated in the lumen of this organ to form pepsin, which is one component of this organ’s namesake juice. For 10 points, name this digestive organ above the small intestine.
ANSWER: stomach &lt;GR, Biology&gt;

488.
ID: 158988  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 03 | Number: 15
TOSSUP: This character reflects that “It is impossible to convey the life-sensation of any given epoch of one’s existence,” concluding that “We live, as we dream – alone.” This character comes across a reed hut where he finds a note reading “Wood for you. Hurry up” and an old book on seamanship that contains margin notes he mistakes for a cipher. This character spends weeks waiting for rivets necessary for some repairs to arrive. This character discusses the wilderness of Roman-era (*) London with a group of five men, including a “Director of Companies,” in the frame story of a novel. In that novel, this character discovers the postscriptum “exterminate all the brutes!” in a report by a man who dies with the words “the horror! the horror!” For 10 points, name this narrator who searches for Kurtz in the Congo in Joseph Conrad’s Heart of Darkness.
ANSWER: Charles Marlow [or Charles Marlow; or Charlie Marlow] &lt;AP, World/Other Literature&gt;

489.
ID: 158995  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 04 | Number: 2
TOSSUP: Since 2001, the Canadian Space Agency has shipped seeds of this crop to the ISS to be studied by young students after their return. This is the most common crop for which cultivators distinguish between “determinate” and “indeterminate” manners of growth. Robert Gibbon Johnson supposedly proved that this crop was not (*) poisonous by eating a whole basket of them. The San Marzano variety of this food, which is grown in volcanic soil near Mount Vesuvius, is sold peeled and canned. Every year in the Valencian town of Buñol (“boon-YOLE”), a festival is held in which revelers throw this food at each other on the streets. For 10 points, name this food that comes in Roma and cherry varieties and that you might find in your pizza sauce.
ANSWER: tomatoes [or tomates; or pomodoro or pomodori; accept La Tomatina] &lt;AP, Other&gt;

490.
ID: 159149  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 11 | Number: 16
TOSSUP: A general in this war dubbed a hill the “Mountain of Souls” in a poem after his forces captured 203 Hill during a siege in this war. This war was witnessed by several foreign observers like the British officer Ian Hamilton, who recorded his experience in A Staff Officer’s Scrapbook. During this war, General Kuropatkin managed to prevent the encirclement of his forces during his loss in Battle of (*) Liáoyáng. During a naval battle in this war, Admiral Rozhestvensky’s Baltic Fleet was decimated after the opposing fleet “crossed the T” under the leadership of Togo Heihachiro. Theodore Roosevelt helped end this war by mediating the terms of the Treaty of Portsmouth. For 10 points, name this 1904 to 1905 war in which Russia was defeated by a rising East Asian empire.
ANSWER: Russo-Japanese War &lt;AE, European History&gt;

491.
ID: 158989  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 03 | Number: 16
TOSSUP: Solketal is a protected form of this molecule that is formed from it by creating two ether linkages. Heating oxalic acid and this molecule produces formic acid, with this molecule acting as the catalyst. Acrolein (“uh-CRO-lee-in”) can be synthesized from this chemical in the presence of magnesium sulfate. This chemical is produced as a byproduct of biodiesel production and is a common cosmetics additive. In a sulfuric acid-catalyzed reaction, this non-aromatic molecule reacts with nitric acid to form a vasodilator and (*) explosive. Saponification produces this molecule along with fatty acid salts, and it is a viscous liquid at room temperature. For 10 points, name this three-carbon triol, the backbone of most lipids.
ANSWER: glycerol [or glycerine] &lt;GR, Chemistry&gt;

492.
ID: 159007  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 04 | Number: 14
TOSSUP: In the “Testimony of Wesley Norris,” this person ordered Dick Williams to brutally whip Wesley and his cousin Mary, then wash their backs with brine. This person was the subject of a four-volume biography by Douglas Southall Freeman that was criticized by Eric Foner as a “hagiography.” This commander lost the Battle of Malvern Hill, in which his subordinate Lewis (*) Amistad led a charge against the hill. That subordinate was mortally wounded in another battle at a low stone wall called “the angle,” sometimes called the “high-water mark” of this commander’s cause. This commander won the Seven Days’ Battles in the Peninsular Campaign. For 10 points, name this Confederate commander of the Army of Northern Virginia who was defeated at Gettysburg.
ANSWER: Robert E. Lee [or Robert Edward Lee] &lt;AE, American History&gt;

493.
ID: 159153  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Philosophy | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 11 | Number: 20
TOSSUP: In one work, this thinker used the “epistemic principle of border crossing” to argue against imposing risk on others without their consent. He wrote that work based on his arguments with Michael Walzer in a Harvard course that they co-taught, Capitalism and Socialism. He famously mocked the Lockean proviso, comparing it to mixing a can of tomato juice with the sea. To refute ethical hedonism, he argued that no one would choose to artificially (*) experience pleasurable activities without doing them. This thinker argued that utilitarianism would force agents to make sacrifices to a utility monster. He [emphasize] rejected the difference principle, arguing for a Lockean “night watchman state” in a response to John Rawls’s A Theory of Justice. For 10 points, name this libertarian who wrote Anarchy, State, and Utopia.
ANSWER: Robert Nozick &lt;GR, Philosophy&gt; Bonuses

494.
ID: 159152  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 11 | Number: 19
TOSSUP: A deuterated form of this molecule has been used to create an isopycnic mixture of this molecule and methanol. KA oil is a mixture of this compound and a ketone derivative of this molecule, which is used in the production of adipic acid and caprolactam. A-values are used to determine the most stable conformational isomers of substituted forms of this compound. Hermann Sachse (“SACK-suh”) proposed this molecule’s most stable isomer, which it adopts to relieve (*) torsional strain. The orientation of substituents to this molecule take axial or equatorial positions. Steric interactions between flagpole hydrogens make this molecule’s boat conformation less stable than its two chair conformations, which it converts between in ring flips. For 10 points, name this six-carbon cycloalkane whose formula is C6H12.
ANSWER: cyclohexane [accept C6H12 until read] &lt;GR, Chemistry&gt;

495.
ID: 159029  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History Classical
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 05 | Number: 16
TOSSUP: At the Battle of Taginae, this empire’s forces assumed a crescent-shaped formation, allowing them to resist a cavalry attack, whose participants were ordered to only use spears. In honor of a ruler of this empire, a governor named Smaragdus erected the Column of Phocas. A “catepanate” held by this empire was conquered by Robert Guiscard (“geese-CAR”) after he took the city of Bari. Until (*) Ravenna was conquered by the Lombards in 751, it served as the capital of an “exarchate” of this empire in Italy. The Ostrogothic leader Totila was defeated by this empire’s general Narses, who was sent to Italy during the Gothic War after this empire recalled the general Belisarius. For 10 points, name this empire, which sought to reconquer Italy during the reign of Justinian I.
ANSWER: Byzantine Empire [or Eastern Roman Empire; prompt on Roman Empire] &lt;WC, European History&gt;

496.
ID: 158981  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Mythology | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 03 | Number: 8
TOSSUP: The queen of this kingdom, whose name means “frog-bellied,” is attacked during a ritual by a figure whose right foot is so heavy that none of this kingdom’s soldiers can lift it. A prince of this kingdom originally named “cloud-lord” becomes enraged after the death of his uncle, who is cursed to hibernate for half of each year. A figure carrying a signet ring shrinks to the size of an ant to sneak into this kingdom and tricks its soldiers into (*) igniting a pile of clothes on his tail, which he uses to burn this kingdom. A princess of this kingdom has her nose and ears cut off after trying to seduce a king; that king enlists a corps of bears and monkeys to build a bridge to this kingdom ruled by a ten-headed demon. For 10 points, name this kingdom ruled by Rāvana that is the namesake of a modern-day island country to the south of India.
ANSWER: Lankā (“LUN-kah”) [or Lankāpura; accept Śri Lanka] (The figure mentioned in the first line is Angad, and the queen, prince, and princess are Mandodarī, Meghnād, and Śūrpanakhā, respectively.) &lt;AP, Mythology&gt;

497.
ID: 158978  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 03 | Number: 5
TOSSUP: In one of these poems, the speaker says of his critics, “I may be straight, though they themselves be bevel,” before reminding them that “all men are bad and in their badness reign.” William Empson’s Seven Types of Ambiguity begins by unpacking a line about “bare ruined choirs” in one of these poems. In an Oscar Wilde story, Cyril forges a portrait to convince Erskine (“UR-skin”) that their dedicatee, Mr. W.H., was a young (*) actor. One of these poems states that “music hath a far more pleasing sound” than the addressee, whose hair is compared to “black wires.” Another of these poems declares that though the “rough winds do shake the darling buds of May,” the addressee shall live on “so long as men can breathe or eyes can see.” For 10 points, name these 14-line poems including one beginning, “Shall I compare thee to a summer’s day?”
ANSWER: sonnets by William Shakespeare [or Shakespearean sonnets; prompt on partial answers, such as sonnets or Shakespeare poems] &lt;CK, British Literature&gt;

498.
ID: 158982  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature European
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 03 | Number: 9
TOSSUP: A duke of this city is said to have just one defect in his whole life: that he commissioned a bust of Napoleon for ten thousand francs. A prince of this city only talks to his wife for half an hour at the dinner table every few weeks and is poisoned by a somewhat mad highwayman-cum-poet on behalf of a countess. In fear of lifelong disfiguration from a cut on the cheek, a character from this city kills an actress’s manager. That character escapes imprisonment for that crime in this city’s (*) Farnese (“far-NAY-zay”) Tower by using some ropes sent by his aunt Gina and this city’s Prime Minister, her lover Count Mosca. The death of his lover Clélia Conti prompts Fabrice del Dongo to retire to a monastery in this city near Lake Como. For 10 points, name this Italian city home to the title Charterhouse of a Stendhal novel.
ANSWER: Parma &lt;AP, European Literature&gt;

499.
ID: 158974  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 03 | Number: 1
TOSSUP: A man working in this industry nicknames his coworkers “The Druid” and “The Clinger” and stares at mannequins cast from his model ex-wife in a novel that ends with trading his Ray-Bans for a bag of bread. A character working in this industry uses “Bolivian Marching Powder” at night clubs in Jay McInerney’s (“MACK-uh-NER-nee”) second-person novel Bright Lights, Big City. After falling asleep staring at his ivory Christ statuette, a character working in this industry dreams of (*) sacrificing a lamb in a novel that ends with him rushing down the stairs to embrace a crippled man carrying a wrapped gun. In that novel, the title character’s work in this industry involves advising figures like “Brokenhearted” and “Sick-of-it-all.” For 10 points, the title character of Nathanael West’s Miss Lonelyhearts works in what industry as an advice columnist?
ANSWER: publishing industry [accept any answers about the industry that produces newspapers, magazines, periodicals, or publications; accept journalism or journalist; accept printing; prompt on media; prompt on writing or writer; anti-prompt on advice column or advice columnist or fact-checking industry] &lt;JH, American Literature&gt;

500.
ID: 158971  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 02 | Number: 18
TOSSUP: Frances Arnold won part of the 2018 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for using directed evolution on these molecules. Complex examples of these molecules exhibit the ping-pong mechanism. Walter Gilbert theorized that the first examples of these molecules were made of RNA. The Briggs–Haldane derivation of a relation governing these molecules uses the free ligand and (*) steady-state approximations. These molecules, which irreversibly form covalent bonds with suicide inhibitors, may require cofactors to function, and their active sites bind to substrates in the lock-and-key or induced fit models. K-cat, the turnover number, characterizes their efficiency, and is equal to V-max over the concentration of these molecules. Those constants appear in the Michaelis–Menten equation for the kinetics of these molecules. For 10 points, name these ubiquitous biological catalysts.
ANSWER: enzymes [prompt on catalysts until read] &lt;GR, Biology&gt;

501.
ID: 158975  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 03 | Number: 2
TOSSUP: A subgroup of these people known as the Agudas were deported after a revolt carried out by Muslims among these people. One of these people named Estevanico was killed in the village of Hawikuh after surviving a shipwreck during the Narváez (“nar-VAH-ez”) expedition and lead Marcos de Niza in a search for the Seven Cities of Cibola. These people formed autonomous inland settlements like Palmares (“pow-MAH-riss”) known as (*) quilombos (“kee-LOHM-boos”). Gaspar Yanga established a “maroon” community of these people near Veracruz. In 1888, Princess Isabel signed the Golden Law to free these people in Brazil. For 10 points, name these people who were forcibly brought to Latin America through the Middle Passage.
ANSWER: slaves [or esclavos or escravos; accept escaped slaves or freed slaves or any other specific answer containing the word slave; prompt on Africans, Black people, Afro-Latinos, or equivalents; prompt on Moors; anti-prompt on maroons until it is read] &lt;AE, World History&gt;

502.
ID: 158983  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 03 | Number: 10
TOSSUP: In 1892, Charlie Siringo uncovered the plans of workers who produced this good to strike under the leadership of George Pettibone in the town of Coeur d’Alene (“KOR duh-LAIN”). The German engineer Philip Deidesheimer (“DYE-diss-HY-mer”) developed a system of “square sets” of lumber that could be locked together like honeycomb to help produce this good. The Virginia and Truckee Railroad brought large amounts of this resource to be processed in (*) Carson City from centers of production in Washoe (“WAH-sho”) and Virginia City. This resource led to the growth of several boomtowns in Nevada following the discovery of a large deposit of this metal called the Comstock Lode. For 10 points, name this precious metal that the bimetallist William Jennings Bryan advocated as currency in the “Cross of Gold” speech.
ANSWER: silver [accept silver ore] &lt;AE, American History&gt;

503.
ID: 158967  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature European
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 02 | Number: 14
TOSSUP: In a work by this author, a man in a bowler hat reports a tourist who had told his daughter to bathe naked on a beach to clean her bathing suit. In that work by this author, a man gifts a lady a pin with the phrase “Pensez très fort” (“pawn-SAY tray FOR”), having earlier made a heckler stick his tongue out at the audience by cracking a whip. An allegory of fascism by this author climaxes with a youth shooting an (*) entertainer who’d hypnotized him into kissing his cheek. This creator of the magician Cipolla (“chee-PO-lah”) also wrote a novella about a recently-ennobled author who eats some over-ripe strawberries after losing sight of a boy he is stalking, Tadzio (“TAH-joe”), leading to his contraction of cholera. For 10 points, name this German author of Mario and the Magician and Death in Venice.
ANSWER: Thomas Mann &lt;AP, European Literature&gt;

504.
ID: 158964  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 02 | Number: 11
TOSSUP: Internal feature structure is represented through an attribute value matrix in one of these systems that is described as “head-driven.” Arvind Joshi proposed a formalism in which these systems consist of elementary trees that can be substituted and adjoined. The Lambek calculus, which allows for the concatenation of types, is an example of a categorial one. These systems have only two operations, Move-alpha and Merge, in the (*) Minimalist Program. They are ordered by increasing expressive power in a hierarchy that divides them into types 0 through 3. A set of terminal and non-terminal symbols, a start symbol, and production rules can be used to model the context-free type of these systems. Noam Chomsky posited an innate “universal” one. For 10 points, name these sets of rules that govern the composition of words in a language.
ANSWER: grammars [accept context-free grammar or categorial grammar or head-driven phrase structure grammar or tree-adjoining grammar; or theories of grammar; prompt on phrase structure rules] &lt;CK, Social Science&gt;

505.
ID: 158968  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Mythology | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 02 | Number: 15
TOSSUP: The entourage of a man who descended from this place included a wrestler named Corineus, who defeated the giant Gogmagog by throwing him off a cliff. The Welsh name for this place, Caerdroia, is given to turf labyrinths built on hilltops, which in other parts of Britain are called this place’s “towns.” In the Prose Edda, Snorri Sturluson claims that the Aesir are the descendants of people from this place. The legendary first king of (*) Britain, Brutus, was descended from the royalty of this city, whose citadel housed a sacred statue called the Palladium. A prince of this city was abducted by Zeus to become the cupbearer of the gods; that prince was Ganymede. Laocoön (“lao-KOH-on”) was killed by snakes after he threw a spear at a structure that was used to infiltrate this city. For 10 points, name this city ruled over by Priam, the target of the Greek siege in the Iliad.
ANSWER: Troy [or Ilion; or Ilium] &lt;JS, Mythology&gt;

506.
ID: 158960  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature World
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 02 | Number: 7
TOSSUP: A poet who used this language wrote a poem about searching for his son on a hill opposite a shepherd looking for a goat, and wrote a poem that begins “God has pity on kindergarten children, / He pities school children – less. / But adults he pities not at all.” The author of the collection Open Closed Open used this language, as did the poet Zelda, whose mentorship of another writer is described in the memoir A Tale of Love and Darkness. A poem in this language tells a (*) city that “If I forget thee… let my right hand forget her cunning.” A poem dedicated “to the Chief Musician” is the 19th entry in a set of poems written in this language, whose 23rd poem describes how “He causes me to lie down in green pastures.” For 10 points, name this language whose poets include Yehuda Amichai (“yeh-HOO-dah AH-mee-khy”), Amos Oz (“ah-MOSE OHZ”), and the author of the Psalms.
ANSWER: Hebrew [or Ivrit; accept Modern Hebrew or Israeli Hebrew or Biblical Hebrew or Ancient Hebrew] &lt;JB, World/Other Literature&gt;

507.
ID: 158957  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 02 | Number: 4
TOSSUP: Reppe developed catalysts for alkyne trimerization based on this element. This element is the primary component of a highly corrosion-resistant alloy called Monel (“mo-NELL”). Ions of this element are theorized to be covered by a molecular flap in the active site of urease to reduce catalytic activity. Like palladium, this element can catalyze cross couplings, including couplings of Grignard (“green-YARR”) reagents. When alloyed with aluminum, this element can catalyze the removal of thioketal groups or (*) hydrogenation. This element complexes with carbon monoxide reversibly in the Mond process, which is used for its purification and is the main component of a catalyst named for Raney. For 10 points, name this ferromagnetic transition metal that is thought to make up the Earth’s core in an alloy with iron.
ANSWER: nickel [or Ni] &lt;GR, Chemistry&gt;

508.
ID: 158961  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Religion | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 02 | Number: 8
TOSSUP: A chapter of the Quran titled after these people rhetorically asks why one would not fight for weak and ill-treated people who cry, “Rescue us from this town, whose people are oppressors!” During the compilation of the Quran, Zayd ibn Thabit referenced a collection of “leaves” belonging to one of these people named Hafsa. These people receive a customary payment called the (*) mahr (“MAH-hurr”), which can be returned during khul‘ to break the corresponding contract, after which they must observe a waiting period called ‘idda. The only one of these people mentioned by name in the Quran is also the namesake of a chapter that details the birth of the prophet ‘Isa, or Jesus. For 10 points, name these people who might fulfill an Islamic requirement to dress modestly by wearing a hijab.
ANSWER: women [or females or girls; accept An-Nisa; anti-prompt (i.e., ask “can you be less specific?”) on wives, wives of Muhammad, daughters, or any other specific types of women] &lt;WC, Religion&gt;

509.
ID: 158969  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 02 | Number: 16
TOSSUP: In 1947, this country appointed a woman who had led its “Moscow” faction against the “native” faction as the world’s first modern female foreign minister. That woman, Ana Pauker, facilitated the emigration of this country’s Jews to Israel until she was purged by a leader who industrialized this country by building the Galați (“gah-LAHTS”) steel works. A dictator of this country who styled himself as (*) “Conducător” (“con-doo-kuh-TOR”) put down a rebellion led by Horia Sima, the Legionnaires’ rebellion. Gheorghe Gheorghiu-Dej (“GYOR-gay gyor-GHEE-oo-DEZH”) was a Communist leader of this country; another Communist leader of this country issued Decree 770 to outlaw abortion and contraception, and fled the capital with his wife Elena during a 1989 uprising. For 10 points, name this country once ruled by Nicolae Ceaușescu (“chow-SHESS-koo”).
ANSWER: Romania &lt;AE, European History&gt;

510.
ID: 158984  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 03 | Number: 11
TOSSUP: Harvard pharmacologist P. B. Dews experimented on three animals from this class called Albert, Bertram, and Charles. Cameroceras were Paleozoic ancestors of this class. A. R. Hough studied how Sepia officinalis, a member of this class, can be conditioned to use its camouflage mechanism, and other researchers have discovered that some organisms in this class can sense light using opsins in their skin. Many members of this class have papillae and reflectin-containing (*) chromatophores in their skin, which display patterns for camouflage or communication. The only externally-shelled organisms in this class are nautiluses, and soft-bodied organisms in this class can spray ink as an escape mechanism. For 10 points, name this class, part of the phylum Mollusca, that includes cuttlefish, octopodes, and squid.
ANSWER: Cephalopoda [or cephalopods] &lt;GR, Biology&gt;

511.
ID: 158952  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 01 | Number: 19
TOSSUP: In a play by this author, a black man is told “you win many battles” after accompanying his lover on a visit to her in-laws wearing a summer suit but holding a chauffeur’s cap. This author who wrote about Henry and Albertine’s relationship in one play declared “I cannot and will not cut my conscience to fit this year’s fashions” in a celebrated letter refusing to name names to HUAC (“HYOO-ack”). Julian brings his new bride Lily home to his doting spinster sisters in this author’s play (*) Toys in the Attic. This author wrote a play in which Leo steals the wheelchair-bound Horace’s Union Pacific bonds, and one in which a girl alleges a lesbian affair between the boarding school operators Martha and Karen. For 10 points, name this author who wrote about the lies of Mary Tilford in The Children’s Hour and Regina Hubbard Giddens in The Little Foxes.
ANSWER: Lillian Hellman &lt;JH, American Literature&gt;

512.
ID: 158949  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 01 | Number: 16
TOSSUP: In the fifth movement of a long, unusual piece in this genre, a male choir sings text from Adam Oehlenschläger’s (“AY-dum UH-len-SHLAY-ur’s”) Aladdin. Ferdinand Hiller conducted the premiere of a piece in this genre with a cryptogrammic C B A A motif after a pregnant Clara urged Robert Schumann to expand his Phantasie in A minor by two movements. Before Leonard Bernstein (“BURN-styne”) conducted a piece in this genre, he controversially stated that the exceptionally (*) slow tempi were not suggested by him. Brahms joked that the dark second movement of his second piece in this genre was “a tiny little wisp of a scherzo.” The composer who wrote a heavier ossia cadenza for one piece in this genre and dedicated another to his hypnotherapist Nikolai Dahl was Sergei Rachmaninoff. For 10 points, name this type of piece that Lang Lang might play alongside an orchestra.
ANSWER: piano concertos [or piano concerti; prompt on concerto or concerti] (The first clue is about Busoni.) &lt;JN, Classical Music&gt;

513.
ID: 158953  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Religion | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 01 | Number: 20
TOSSUP: A biblical poem about this thing opens with an extended metaphor about mining and declares that “Abbadon and Death say, ‘We have heard a rumor of it with our ears.’” Qoheleth (“ko-HEL-ett”) declared in another biblical book that “in much [of this thing] is much vexation.” “The fear of the Lord” is called the “beginning” of this concept in chapter 9, verse 10 of the Book of (*) Proverbs. This concept names a category of biblical literature that includes Job, Proverbs, and Ecclesiastes (“uh-KLEE-zee-ASS-teez”); the last of those is narrated by an anonymous king of Israel who has acquired this characteristic, traditionally thought to be Solomon. For 10 points, gold, frankincense, and myrrh (“murr”) were the three gifts given to the infant Jesus by the Magi, who are often called three men with what characteristic?
ANSWER: wisdom [or wise; accept chokhmah or sophia; prompt on knowledge, intelligence, skill, insight, acumen, shrewdness, and other synonyms by asking “another synonym required”] &lt;WC, Religion&gt; Bonuses

514.
ID: 158945  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 01 | Number: 12
TOSSUP: A successful campaign against the “big-belly” disease, or schistosomiasis (“SHIST-oh-so-MY-uh-siss”), in this country preceded the establishment of a “rural cooperative medical system” staffed by “barefoot doctors.” This country sponsored Project 523, which discovered an antimalarial medicine derived from the sweet wormwood plant, called artemisinin. This country was the origin of the 2002 SARS outbreak. The Kilgour–Matas report accused this country’s government of (*) harvesting organs from members of a persecuted religion. Theories in this country’s traditional medicine include the Five Elements and the flow of energy through lines on the body called meridians, which can be stimulated by sticking in needles. For 10 points, name this Asian country, the origin of acupuncture.
ANSWER: China [or People’s Republic of China; or PRC; or Zhōngguó; do not accept or prompt on “Republic of China” or “ROC”] &lt;WC, World History&gt;

515.
ID: 158943  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 01 | Number: 10
TOSSUP: Nuclear emulsions alternating with plates of iron were used in a detector for these particles; in that Fermilab-based experiment, one type of these particles was observed for the first time. Experiments, including one based on liquid xenon-136 called nEXO, are trying to observe a double beta decay process that atypically does not involve these particles. That process would prove the Majorana (“ma-yo-RA-na”) nature of these particles. Antarctic ice serves as a scintillation detector for these particles in the (*) IceCUBE experiment. Photomultiplier tubes surround 50,000 tons of water in the Super-Kamiokande experiment designed to study these particles; that experiment demonstrated that these particles, produced by hydrogen fusion in the Sun, have mass and oscillate between different flavors. For 10 points, name these neutral leptons that come in electron, muon, and tau types.
ANSWER: neutrinos [accept sterile neutrinos in the first sentence; accept specific types like electron neutrinos] &lt;GR, Physics&gt;

516.
ID: 158946  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 01 | Number: 13
TOSSUP: According to Emery’s rule, one form of this behavior often happens between closely related species. Tropical forest birds that engage in that form of this behavior do so by “bivouac (“BIV-oo-ack”) checking.” Richard Dawkins described the “action at a distance” form of this behavior in The Extended Phenotype and used it as an example of organisms manipulating other organisms as part of their environment. This behavior may trigger rapid evolution called an (*) “arms race.” Mixed-species ant colonies exemplify the social form of this behavior, and cowbirds and cuckoos engage in its brood form, where members of another species raise their offspring. For 10 points, name this form of symbiosis in which one species benefits at the expense of the other.
ANSWER: parasitism [or word forms; accept kleptoparasitism, social parasitism, or brood parasitism; prompt on symbiosis until read] &lt;GR, Biology&gt;

517.
ID: 158954  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Philosophy | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 02 | Number: 1
TOSSUP: It’s not necessity, but Jaakko Hintikka (“YAWK-ko HEEN-teek-kaw”) modeled this concept as the operator box in the modal logic S4, which controversially includes the positive introspection axiom. The lottery paradox is used to argue that this sort of norm governs the speech act of assertion. David Lewis argued that ascriptions of this concept are context-dependent in a paper whose title calls this concept “elusive.” Alvin Goldman’s causal (“CAUSE-al”) account of this concept struggles to explain (*) “fake barn cases.” A 1963 paper imagines a job applicant who believes that a man with ten coins in his pocket will get the job in order to challenge the definition of it given in Plato’s Theaetetus (“thee-uh-TEE-tuss”). Gettier (“GETTY-er”) cases illustrate why this concept cannot be defined as justified true belief. For 10 points, name this concept studied in epistemology.
ANSWER: knowledge &lt;CK, Philosophy&gt;

518.
ID: 158939  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Philosophy | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 01 | Number: 6
TOSSUP: In a work, a man from this school contrasts the orator’s technē with that of the fisherman, while using a method of definition based on collection and division, called diairesis. That unnamed philosopher from this school appears in the late Platonic dialogues Statesman and Sophist, where he is called “the Stranger.” In another Platonic dialogue, a man from this school argues that if there is a Form of Greatness, then there must be a Form that includes it in a (*) regress argument, dubbed the “third man argument.” That monist philosopher from this school distinguished the “way of opinion” from the “way of truth” in his fragmentary poem On Nature. For 10 points, name this Greek school of pre-Socratic philosophy founded by Parmenides.
ANSWER: Eleatic (“ell-ee-attic”) School [or the Eleatic Stranger; or Elea] &lt;CK, Philosophy&gt;

519.
ID: 158936  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 01 | Number: 3
TOSSUP: The Hollenberg group has pioneered a nanoscale version of this technique using NV centers in diamond as sensors. Decoherence produces longitudinal relaxation observed in this technique. Small “shim” coils produce adjustment fields in this technique. Free induction decay produces RF signals analyzed in this technique. Johnson and Bovey developed a model of shielding or deshielding at different molecular locations to explain the results of this technique. Refocusing can produce a (*) spin echo in this technique. The ring-current model describes how aromaticity affects the results of this technique. Reference molecules for this technique include TMS and deuterated chloroform. Nuclei with different neighbors show up as peaks with different chemical shifts in this technique. For 10 points, name this technique that measures the behavior of nuclei like protons and carbon-13 in large magnetic fields.
ANSWER: NMR [or nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy; accept MRI or magnetic resonance imaging until “shielding” is read] &lt;GR, Chemistry&gt;

520.
ID: 158940  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 01 | Number: 7
TOSSUP: Members of this group forged friendly relations with Saturiwa and his namesake tribe at their settlement of Fort Caroline, before it was destroyed by Pedro de Avilés (“ah-vee-LACE”). Members of this group established an agricultural settlement in the valley of Franschhoek (“fronce-HOOK”) in South Africa. The military forces of this group were led to victory in the Battle of Ivry (“eev-REE”) over the Duc de Mayenne (“mah-YEN”). (*) Frederick Wilhelm of Prussia encouraged the migration of this group to Brandenburg by issuing the Edict of Potsdam. This group was targeted by violence after the marriage of Margaret of Valois (“val-WAH”) and Henry of Navarre during the St. Bartholomew’s Day Massacre. For 10 points, the Edict of Fontainebleau (“fon-ten-BLOH”) revoked the religious toleration granted by the Edict of Nantes (“nont”) to what group of French Calvinists?
ANSWER: Huguenots [prompt on French Calvinists or French Protestants] &lt;AE, European History&gt;

521.
ID: 159030  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Religion | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 05 | Number: 17
TOSSUP: In Mormon folklore, David W. Patten is said to have seen this person, describing him as a naked hairy man, which gave rise to this person’s identification with Bigfoot. In the Quran, God sent a raven to this person in order to show him how to scratch up the earth. A descendant of this man named Lamech spoke a poem called the “Song of the Sword,” declaring that if this man is avenged (*) sevenfold, Lamech should be avenged seventy-sevenfold. This man received a mark from God and lived in the land of Nod after being told that he would be “a fugitive and wanderer on the earth.” After this man asked, “Am I my brother’s keeper?”, God told him that his brother’s blood “is crying to me from the ground.” For 10 points, what man from the Book of Genesis killed his brother Abel?
ANSWER: Cain [or Qayin or Qabil] &lt;WC, Mythology&gt;

522.
ID: 158955  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 02 | Number: 2
TOSSUP: In a story by this author, the narrator fantasizes about the “fairy mountain” that he can see from his house, but finds that a girl who lives on it, Marianna, daydreams about his house instead. A story by this author consists of a collection of “Sketches,” one of which describes an encounter with a Galápagos tortoise, while another describes the USS Essex encountering a phantom ship. A ladle falls into some smelting metal, blemishing a (*) bell that is rung by an automaton until it kills its master, the architect Bannadonna, in this author’s story “The Bell-Tower.” Nippers and Turkey work with the title character, who repeatedly states that he “prefers not to,” in a story by him. For 10 points, name this author of the collection The Piazza Tales, which contains “Bartleby, the Scrivener.”
ANSWER: Herman Melville &lt;JH, American Literature&gt;

523.
ID: 158941  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 01 | Number: 8
TOSSUP: In an “autobiography” by an author of this ethnicity who mysteriously disappeared in 1974, the protagonist refers to this group as “buffalos” and gives himself a new middle name. The words “I will endure!” in all caps ends a poem written by an activist of this ethnicity nicknamed “Corky.” An author of this ethnicity inspired Raoul Duke’s Samoan attorney Dr. Gonzo in Hunter S. Thompson’s Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas. In a novel by an author of this ethnicity, the protagonist desires to (*) “baptize” herself under a name like “Zeze the X” and tries on high heels with her friends Rachel and Lucy. That protagonist of this ethnicity is sexually assaulted at a carnival and composes “vignettes” (“vin-YETS”) during her time living in the title Chicago dwelling. For 10 points, the author of The House on Mango Street, Sandra Cisneros, is of what ethnicity?
ANSWER: Mexican-American [or Chicano; or Chicana; prompt on Latino, Latina or Hispanic] (the leadin clues Autobiography of a Brown Buffalo by Oscar Zeta Acosta) &lt;AP, World/Other Literature&gt;

524.
ID: 158985  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 03 | Number: 12
TOSSUP: The wheel of fortune in William Hogarth’s Emblematical Print on the South Sea Scheme parodies a depiction of one of these events that appears on the cover of the NYRB edition of a Veronica Wedgwood history. A huge tree appears in that engraving depicting this sort of event, which is part of the Great Miseries of War series by Jacques Callot (“kah-YO”). A group of people peek over a wall to watch one of these events in a painting by Edouard Manet; that painting (*) draws heavily on a painting of one of these events in which light emanates from a square lantern on the ground. That painting of one of these events shows a man in white with outstretched arms facing a line of French soldiers. For 10 points, name this sort of event depicted in Manet’s painting of Emperor Maximilian and Goya’s The Third of May, 1808, which can be carried out by firing squads.
ANSWER: executions [accept hangings or executions by firing squad; prompt on more general answers like shootings and murders; prompt on wars] &lt;JH, Painting &amp; Sculpture&gt;

525.
ID: 159232  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 15 (Tiebreakers) | Number: 19
TOSSUP: A monologue in this play repeatedly claims that “We all know that something is eternal.” A character in this play who later dies of pneumonia remarks that “People are meant to go through life two by two. ’Tain’t natural to be lonesome.” A character in this play explains his choice to forgo college and marry over ice-cream sodas in Morgan’s drugstore. The hymn (*) “Blessed Be the Tie that Binds” is repeated throughout this play, whose first act, subtitled “Daily Life,” includes a lecture by Professor Willard about the history of the setting. In the final act of this play a character asks “Does anyone ever realize Life while they live it…?” after reliving her 12th birthday party. For 10 points, name this Thornton Wilder play in which the Stage Manager tells the audience about the people of Grover’s Corners.
ANSWER: Our Town &lt;JH, American Literature&gt;

526.
ID: 159229  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 15 (Tiebreakers) | Number: 16
TOSSUP: An essay written by this person notes that the natural limit of a republic is the distance to the center of the republic, which will barely allow representatives to meet as often as necessary. That essay by this person notes that because the jurisdiction of the national government is restricted to certain areas, state governments will retain authority. In another essay, this politician wrote that (*) “Ambition must be made to counteract ambition,” and “If men were angels, no government would be necessary.” Along with two other politicians who took the pen name “Publius,” John Jay and Alexander Hamilton, this politician wrote the Federalist Papers. For 10 points, name this Virginia politician and “Father of the Constitution” who succeeded Thomas Jefferson as President.
ANSWER: James Madison [prompt on Publius until read] &lt;AE, American History&gt;

527.
ID: 159233  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Philosophy | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 15 (Tiebreakers) | Number: 20
TOSSUP: Sydney Shoemaker’s “too many thinkers” argument contends that each person is identical with this kind of thing. A 1986 book arguing that these things have moral status based on the criterion of a “subject-of-a-life” was written by Tom Regan. In the 1970s, Richard Ryder and Mary Midgley participated in discussions about the ethical status of these things as part of the Oxford Group. The “argument from marginal cases” argues that they have moral status if (*) infants and the severely disabled have moral status. Jeremy Bentham famously said of these things, “the question is not, Can they reason? nor, Can they talk? but, Can they suffer?” For 10 points, Peter Singer introduced the notion of speciesism (“species-ism”) in a 1975 book advocating the “liberation” of what creatures?
ANSWER: animals [accept Animal Liberation] &lt;CK, Philosophy&gt; Bonuses

528.
ID: 159227  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Religion | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 15 (Tiebreakers) | Number: 14
TOSSUP: The fourth ritual performed by Shingon Buddhist priests during their initiation is the goma ritual, which centers on performing this action. This action is done with a red heifer (“HEFF-er”) to produce a ritual substance historically used in Judaism to purify things defiled by corpses. The korban olah (“kor-BAHN oh-LAH”) was a ritual performed by Jewish priests in the Temple based around this action, sometimes known by the Greek word (*) holocaust. During the Qīngmíng (“ching-ming”) Festival, it is customary to give your ancestors money by doing this action with joss paper that comes in the form of folded foil-covered ingots. Hindu yajñas (“YUG-n’yuhs”) are offerings done by this action that are intermediated by Agni. For 10 points, name this action that is done with incense to produce fragrant smoke.
ANSWER: burning [or burnt; accept incinerate, combust, cremate, or synonyms; accept fire or flame; prompt on sacrifice, offering, or oblation by asking “what specifically is done to the sacrifice?”] &lt;WC, Religion&gt;

529.
ID: 159225  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Math
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 15 (Tiebreakers) | Number: 12
TOSSUP: According to Sard’s theorem from measure theory, the set of critical values of a smooth function is a set described by this term. Subsets of those sets described by this term are called negligible. The isotropic cone in a pseudo-Euclidean space consists of a set of vectors described by this term. Similarly, vectors with zero spacetime interval in Minkowski space are referred to by this term. The (*) kernel of a linear transformation is a vector space referred to by this term. The rank of a matrix plus the dimension of a space described by this term must equal the dimension of the matrix’s domain according to a theorem partially named for this term. For 10 points, give this term used as alternate name for the empty set, a synonym of the number zero.
ANSWER: null [accept null set, null vectors, null space, or nullity] &lt;GR, Other Science: Mathematics&gt;

530.
ID: 159228  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Audiovisual
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 15 (Tiebreakers) | Number: 15
TOSSUP: This opera’s libretto, which was written by Jules Barbier (“zhool barb-YAY”) and Michel Carré (“mee-SHELL ka-RAY”), was spoken at its premiere rather than sung. The soprano sings an aria that refers to Goethe’s “Der König in Thule” (“dair KUR-nish in TOO-luh”) in this opera’s second act. In this opera, the chorus “Gloire immortelle de nos aïeux” (“GLWAHR ee-mor-TEL duh noze ah-YUH”) signifies a character’s return from war, after which he meets Siébel (“see-ay-BEL”) at his sister’s house. A chorus sings “Christ est ressuscité!” (“KREEST ay ruh-soo-see-TAY”) at the end of this opera’s fifth act, which takes place in a prison cell. The tenor and bass-baritone sing the duet “Me voici” (“muh vwah-SEE”) in this opera as an image of a character at her (*) spinning wheel is shown. That character, Marguerite, sings the “Jewel Song” upon discovering a box containing jewelry and a mirror. For 10 points, name this opera by Charles Gounod (“goo-NOH”) about the titular scholar’s deal with Mephistopheles.
ANSWER: Faust &lt;JS, Other Arts&gt;

531.
ID: 159234  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 16 (Scrapped extras) | Number: 1
TOSSUP: This condition names a book that developed “new medievalism.” That namesake book by Hedley Bull argues that, despite this condition, order is maintained through an “international society.” Under this condition, increasing military strength leads to escalation in the “security dilemma.” In a foundational essay of constructivism, Alexander Wendt argued that this condition is “what the (*) state makes of it.” Kenneth Waltz’s Man, the State, and War defines this condition as the absence of a common government in the international system. This condition names a political philosophy often wedded with syndicalism. For 10 points, Pierre-Joseph Proudhon (“proo-DON”) advocated what political philosophy that advocates the elimination of government?
ANSWER: anarchy [accept anarchist or anarchism or word forms; accept Anarchical Society; accept “Anarchy is What States Make of It”] &lt;CK, Social Science&gt;

532.
ID: 159223  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 15 (Tiebreakers) | Number: 10
TOSSUP: An essay on this topic discusses a connoisseur of this topic named Toad-in-the-Hole who admires the beauty of a series of events on Ratcliffe Highway involving John Williams. Another essay titled for this practice calls English authors “incomparably the best dull writers” and criticizes an A. A. Milne novel titled for a red house. An essay on this topic considers “a Sunday afternoon, preferably before the war” on which “naturally, “you want to read about” this topic in News of the World. Thomas (*) de Quincey wrote about this activity “as a Fine Art,” and another essay considers a case involving a person with a cleft chin to explain why “you never get a good [one of these events] nowadays.” Raymond Chandler discussed “the simple art” of this crime. For 10 points, a George Orwell essay about the decline of what type of crime in England places Jack the Ripper “in a class by [himself]?”
ANSWER: murder [accept homicide or manslaughter; prompt on crime; anti-prompt on serial killings] &lt;AP, World/Other Literature&gt;

533.
ID: 159221  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 15 (Tiebreakers) | Number: 8
TOSSUP: KAI1 (“kai-one”) belong to class of genes named for suppressing this process. In addition to inhibiting bone resorption, the monoclonal antibody Denosumab can be used to prevent this process. This process requires lysyl oxidase in low-oxygen environments through the activation of focal adhesion kinase. The cascade of this process includes degradation of ECM molecules like E-cadherin, leading to loss of (*) cohesion, and the creation of CTCs. This process typically affects the lymph nodes before other areas of the body, and cells undergoing this process can spread through canicular spaces or through the bloodstream. For 10 points, name this process in which cells from a primary tumor spread to other parts of the body.
ANSWER: metastasis &lt;GR, Biology&gt;

534.
ID: 159219  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Mythology | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 15 (Tiebreakers) | Number: 6
TOSSUP: Plato’s Phaedrus is set in a part of the Attic countryside where this god was said to have abducted a girl playing along the Ilissus River. According to Hyginus, Jupiter ordered this deity to convey Latona to the island of Delos in order to escape the Python. A lost work of Aristeas supposedly described the wars between the one-eyed Arimaspi and a race of griffins that took place in the region beyond this deity’s domain in Thrace. Two of this god’s (*) children drive the harpies away from Phineas in the Argonautica. This god abducted the Athenian princess Orithyia, who gives birth to this god’s feathered children Zetes and Calais. This god, who is often depicted with a conch, cloak, and winged feet, is the herald of cold winter air. For 10 points, name this Greek god of the north wind.
ANSWER: Boreas [accept Aquilo until “harpies” is read] &lt;JS, Mythology&gt;

535.
ID: 159222  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 15 (Tiebreakers) | Number: 9
TOSSUP: This composer’s so-called “opera” A Hand of Bridge consists of four characters, who each sing an aria about their inner thoughts while playing the titular game. The first movement of this composer’s piano concerto begins with a cadenza for the soloist, while the flute introduces the theme of the second-movement Canzone. The second movement of this composer’s Second Symphony was excerpted as the tone poem Night Flight, whereas this composer’s First Symphony synthesizes the four movements of a classical symphony into one movement. The second movement of his (*) String Quartet was excerpted as a standalone piece that was played during the announcement of JFK’s funeral. For 10 points, name this American composer of Adagio for Strings.
ANSWER: Samuel Barber &lt;AE, Classical Music&gt;

536.
ID: 159224  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 15 (Tiebreakers) | Number: 11
TOSSUP: This explorer’s travels were the subject of a letter to the Cardinal of Salzburg by Maximilianus Transylvanus, based on interviews with this explorer’s crew members. This explorer was accompanied on a voyage by Antonio Pigafetta, who wrote an account of his travels describing a stop in the land of Verzin and an encounter a race of giants in (*) Patagonia. This explorer encountered the friendly king Rajah Humabon on Cebu, and baptized him as Don Carlos in honor of his patron, Charles I of Spain. Juan Sebastián Elcano completed this explorer’s last voyage when he killed was by the chief Lapu-Lapu in the Philippines. For 10 points, name this Portuguese explorer who was the initial leader of the first expedition to successfully circumnavigate the earth.
ANSWER: Ferdinand Magellan [or Fernão de Magalhães or Fernando de Magallanes] &lt;AE, European History&gt;

537.
ID: 159235  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 16 (Scrapped extras) | Number: 2
TOSSUP: This dialect contains “linguistic camouflage,” such as allowing verb plus -ing complements, according to the fieldwork of Walt Wolfram. A 1971 sociolinguistic study of this dialect refutes the “deficit theory,” arguing that it is rule-governed. Its phonology exists on a continuum from “deep” to “light” according to John McWhorter’s Words on the Street. Shana Poplack used corpus evidence to argue that it is not the result of (*) decreolization. This dialect exhibits negative concord and, in the present tense, its speakers often drop the copula “be.” Speakers of this dialect characteristically pronounce “ask” as “ax.” For 10 points, William Labov’s Language in the Inner City is a study of what stigmatized dialect of English controversially called “ebonics?”
ANSWER: AAVE [or African American Vernacular English; accept Black Vernacular or Black English Vernacular or BEV or Black Vernacular English or BVE; prompt on “American English”; accept ebonics until read] &lt;CK, Social Science&gt; Bonuses

538.
ID: 159213  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Other
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 14 (Finals 2) | Number: 20
TOSSUP: This city is home to a 36-foot-tall Giuseppe Penone sculpture cast from a tree destroyed in a lightning storm. Mimmo Paladino’s The Sound of the Night is located in this city’s Cullen Sculpture Garden. Ellsworth Kelly created a triptych of dark bronze shapes counted against a concrete wall named for this city. The monumental painting Say Goodbye Catullus to the Shores of Asia Minor by Cy Twombly (“sigh TWOM-blee”) is housed in a Renzo Piano-designed gallery in this city. This city’s (*) Menil Collection sits just north of a church that houses Byzantine frescoes from Cyprus. In this city, Barnett Newman’s Broken Obelisk is located outside of an octagonal, non-denominational building that contains fourteen dark-hued color field paintings. For 10 points, the Rothko Chapel is located in what Texas city?
ANSWER: Houston, Texas &lt;GR, Painting &amp; Sculpture&gt; Bonuses

539.
ID: 159212  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Mythology | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 14 (Finals 2) | Number: 19
TOSSUP: This deity’s Fortuna aspect was worshipped by freedmen of Emperor Hadrian, who minted this deity’s Pax aspect on sestertii. This deity’s cults were located in Smyrna and Rhamnous (“RAM-nuss”), from which this deity’s alternate name of Rhamnousia is derived. According to Pseudo-Hyginus, Zeus transforms into a swan and convinces Aphrodite to pursue him in the form of an eagle as part of a plot to rape this goddess, who transforms into a (*) goose in other retellings to escape him. In some accounts, this goddess, and not Leda, produces the egg from which Helen and the Dioscuri are born. This goddess is depicted with a whip or dagger, and along with the Furies and Ate, punishes mortals who fall victim to hubris. For 10 points, name this Greek goddess of retribution.
ANSWER: Nemesis [accept Rhamnousia until read] &lt;JS, Mythology&gt;

540.
ID: 159214  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 15 (Tiebreakers) | Number: 1
TOSSUP: In 1983, the discovery of this artist’s signature on a tempera and gold painting led to the attribution of several of his works, such as his St. Luke Painting the Virgin and Child and The Adoration of the Magi. This artist was contractually obligated to include portraits of contemporary noblemen who wanted to be depicted witnessing a miracle in a painting whose foreground features his son pointing at the center. Picasso’s Les Demoiselles d’Avignon (“lay dum-wah-ZELL dah-veen-YAWN”) drew on a painting by this artist in which a blue-clad (*) saint holds his arms out to a group of nude souls holding yellow and green garments. This artist of the Vision of St. John also painted a work in which Saint Augustine and Saint Stephen hold a man dressed in black armor and lower into his tomb. For 10 points, Opening of the Fifth Seal, View of Toledo, and the Burial of the Count of Orgaz are by what Spanish artist born on Crete?
ANSWER: El Greco [or Doménikos Theotokópoulos] &lt;JH, Painting &amp; Sculpture&gt;

541.
ID: 159210  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Current Events | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 14 (Finals 2) | Number: 17
TOSSUP: This man resigned as a consultant for Bob Dole’s presidential campaign after The National Enquirer revealed that he had placed ads in swingers’ magazines. In 2010, this man ran a Libertarian gubernatorial campaign for the the “Manhattan Madam” Kristin Davis. This man was the subject of a 2017 Netflix documentary by Dylan Bank. With Charlie Black and Paul (*) Manafort, this man co-founded a firm dubbed “The Torturer’s Lobby.” This self-proclaimed “dirty trickster” ate dinner with Julian Assange in August 2018 and was in contact on Twitter with “Guccifer 2.0,” the persona who claimed to have hacked the Democratic National Committee. For 10 points, the Mueller investigation indicted what Republican political operative in January 2019?
ANSWER: Roger Stone [or Roger Jason Stone Jr.] &lt;CK, Other&gt;

542.
ID: 159211  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature European
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 14 (Finals 2) | Number: 18
TOSSUP: A character in this novel exclaims “Here is faithfulness!” as he dies after a servant pushes his arm to slash his own throat. In this novel, a Greek charlatan has his tongue ripped out and is forced to “act” in a drama in which his character is devoured by a real bear. This novel’s protagonist wonders why his lover drew a fish in the sand when they first met, but he realizes its meaning when he crosses a river to meet her and her giant bodyguard, who later breaks the neck of a charging bull. In this novel, (*) Eunice and the “arbiter of elegance” Petronius cut their wrists at a party. Saint Peter utters this novel’s title phrase to a vision of Christ after being convinced by Lygia’s lover to leave Rome. For 10 points, name this novel about Marcus Vinicius’s life during the reign of Nero, a work of Henryk Sienkiewicz (“shen-k’YEV-itch”).
ANSWER: Quo Vadis [or Quo Vadis: A Narrative of the Time of Nero] &lt;AP, European Literature&gt;

543.
ID: 159215  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 15 (Tiebreakers) | Number: 2
TOSSUP: A citadel complex of this civilization contained a mud-brick platform with seven clay-lined pits that have been identified as “fire altars” for sacrificial offerings. Sir John Hubert Marshall, who first excavated this civilization’s ruins, proposed that it worshipped a “Mother Goddess” based on several clay female figurines. Cultural artifacts from this civilization include many “unicorn” seals, and the statues of the (*) “Priest King” and the “Dancing Girl.” A city of this civilization was equipped with what was possibly the first indoor plumbing system, and a bitumen-lined “Great Bath”; that city of this civilization was Mohenjo-Daro. For 10 points, name this ancient Indian civilization from the Bronze Age that is sometimes named after a Pakistani river.
ANSWER: Indus River Valley civilization [or Harappan civilization] &lt;AE, World History&gt;

544.
ID: 159207  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 14 (Finals 2) | Number: 14
TOSSUP: In a parody of this poem, the speaker asks God, Venus, and Mercury for a tobacco shop so that he can escape the “damn’d profession of writing.” This poem is also referenced by a tourist attraction in the Whispering Glades Memorial Park in Evelyn Waugh’s (“EEV-lin WAH’s”) novel The Loved One and by the closing lines of Lawrence Ferlinghetti’s “Junkman’s Obbligato.” This poem describes peace “dropping from the veils of the morning to where the (*) cricket sings.” This poem ends with the speaker standing “on the pavements grey” and hearing “in the deep heart’s core” the sound of water at the title place, where he hopes to have “nine bean-rows” and a “small cabin… of clay and wattles made.” For 10 points, name this poem that states “I will arise and go now” to the title island, a work of W. B. Yeats.
ANSWER: “The Lake Isle of Innisfree” (The first clue refers to “The Lake Isle” by Ezra Pound.) &lt;JB, British Literature&gt;

545.
ID: 159220  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History Classical
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 15 (Tiebreakers) | Number: 7
TOSSUP: In the decade before this leader came to power, a sacrilegious act was carried out in his city by Megacles, who murdered backers of Cylon’s attempted coup as they were supplicating in a temple. This leader’s legislation was publicly displayed on wooden tablets attached to rotating three-sided pyramids called kyrbeis. This leader, who enfranchised all men who could equip themselves as hoplites, distinguished between intentional and unintentional (*) killing in his law on homicide. Centuries after his death, Demades quipped that this leader wrote in blood and not ink. With the exception of his law on homicide, this leader’s successor Solon replaced his entire law code. For 10 points, name this harsh Athenian lawgiver whose laws punished almost every crime with death.
ANSWER: Draco [or Drakon; accept Draconian constitution or Draconian law] &lt;CK, European History&gt;

546.
ID: 159208  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 14 (Finals 2) | Number: 15
TOSSUP: This politician first came to prominence after he stepped between protestors and a line of policeman and declared, “No one will beat you again!” To mark the 600th anniversary of a battle on St. Vitus Day, this politician gave the “Gazimestan speech,” alluding to the possibility of “armed battles” in his country. Operation Allied Force was a (*) NATO bombing campaign against this leader’s country, which led to an unintended bombing of the Chinese embassy in his country. This leader supported a breakaway state led by his ally Radovan Karadžić (“KAR-ah-jitch”), whose general Ratko Mladić (“m’LAH-ditch”) carried out the mass murder of over 7,000 Bosniak men and boys at Srebrenica. For 10 points, name this Serbian president, whose time in office saw wars in Bosnia and Kosovo.
ANSWER: Slobodan Milošević (“mih-LAW-shuh-vitch”) &lt;AE, European History&gt;

547.
ID: 159204  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History British
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 14 (Finals 2) | Number: 11
TOSSUP: This event was described as “Horrid” and “Hellish” in a broadside with twelve engravings by Francis Barlow arranged as an early comic strip. During this event, the confidence man William Bedloe gave false testimony about being offered 4,000 pounds to murder a justice of the peace. That magistrate, Sir Edmund Godfrey, had been found dead by his own sword after hearing testimony about this event. This event was followed by the (*) Exclusion Crisis, which saw the Earl of Shaftesbury attempt to bar James, Duke of York from the line of succession. Israel Tonge promoted this hoax that was originally fabricated by Titus Oates. For 10 points, name this fictional plot from 1678, which claimed that Jesuits would murder Charles II to put the Catholic James II on the throne.
ANSWER: Popish Plot &lt;CK, European History&gt;

548.
ID: 159203  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 14 (Finals 2) | Number: 10
TOSSUP: A story by this author ends with the narrator recalling how his wife put her hand on his thigh while they drove home from the house of a couple with an incredibly ugly baby and a pet peacock. In another story by this author, a man rambles to the narrator about how he met his chimney sweep wife when he kissed her for “good luck.” While watching a TV film about the Middle Ages and (*) smoking weed, a man in one of his stories sits up and attempts to explain what the title object looks like to his blind guest. In another story by this author, Nick and Laura talk to Terri about her abusive ex Ed over gin. For 10 points, “Where I’m Calling From,” “Cathedral,” and “What We Talk About When We Talk About Love” are stories by what minimalist writer?
ANSWER: Raymond Carver &lt;JH, American Literature&gt;

549.
ID: 159205  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 14 (Finals 2) | Number: 12
TOSSUP: A player of this instrument collaborated with Duke Ellington and Charles Mingus on the tracks “Very Special” and “Fleurette Africaine” for the album Money Jungle. That musician’s wife Abbey Lincoln screams over the sound of this instrument for over a minute on the track “Triptych” from Freedom Now Suite. A player of this instrument, who was secretly recorded yelling obscenities at band members on his tour bus, often ended concerts with his (*) “West Side Story Medley.” Max Roach played this instrument, which is given a prominent solo on Benny Goodman’s 1938 recording of “Sing, Sing, Sing.” In cool jazz, this instrument is often played with brushes. For 10 points, Buddy Rich and Gene Krupa played what percussion instrument usually played with two sticks?
ANSWER: drums [or drum set; prompt on percussion] &lt;CK, Other Arts&gt;

550.
ID: 159209  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 14 (Finals 2) | Number: 16
TOSSUP: Peng and Schlegel combined two methods for finding these entities to create the STQN method. A “climbing image” that is unaffected by spring forces is used in a modification of the nudged elastic band method for finding these entities, and they can also be found using synchronous transit methods. The Curtin–Hammett principle states that one ratio is only dependent on the difference of energies of two of these entities. A coefficient symbolized kappa is used in an equation derived from these entities’ namesake theory; that equation is the (*) Eyring equation, a modification of the Arrhenius equation. These configurations are the saddle points of potential energy surfaces, and they are denoted by a double dagger. For 10 points, name these configurations that possess the highest potential energy along a reaction path.
ANSWER: transition states [accept Transition State Theory; accept activated complex] &lt;VS, Chemistry&gt;

551.
ID: 159216  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 15 (Tiebreakers) | Number: 3
TOSSUP: The kappa number, which is related to residual lignin content, describes the efficiency of this process. The fungal enzyme xylanase can be used in a low-environmental impact form of this process. The chemical basis for this process can involve demobilizing electrons in conjugated double bond systems, or reducing double bonds to single bonds. Environmentally friendly types of this process use ozone, and other versions of this process are classified as elemental (*) chlorine-free or totally chlorine-free. Chromophores lose their effectiveness through this process, which can be done using oxidizing agents like hydrogen peroxide. For 10 points, name this process carried out with household sodium hypochlorite solution, which reduces the color of pigments and whitens stains.
ANSWER: chemical bleaching [or word forms; or wood pulp bleaching] &lt;GR, Chemistry&gt;

552.
ID: 159199  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 14 (Finals 2) | Number: 6
TOSSUP: This dynasty’s rule was opposed by the rebel Umar ibn Hafsun, a convert to Christianity who led resistance from the mountain fortress of Bobastro. The reign of this dynasty’s Hisham II, who ascended to the throne as a child, was dominated by the vizier (“vih-ZEER”) Almanzor, who led a campaign that captured the cathedral bells of Santiago de Compostela. A prince from this dynasty named Abd ar-Rahman founded the Emirate of (*) Córdoba in Spain. Under the leadership of Marwan II, the forces of this dynasty were defeated at the Battle of the Zab. This dynasty’s capital was established at Damascus by its founder Muawiyah I, who fought against Ali in the First Fitna. For 10 points, name this Islamic dynasty that lost their control of the caliphate to the Abbasids.
ANSWER: Umayyad Dynasty [or Omayyad Dynasty; anti-prompt on Caliphate of Córdoba until it is read] &lt;WC, World History&gt;

553.
ID: 159198  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 14 (Finals 2) | Number: 5
TOSSUP: Guido Agosti arranged three movements of this ballet for piano, and Kazuhito Yamashita transcribed it for guitar. According to Taruskin, the leit-harmonie (“light-harmony”) of an evil character in this ballet alternates major and minor thirds. Low strings open this through-composed ballet in A-flat minor by slowly repeating A-flat F-flat E-flat D F G before a natural-harmonic glissando reveals a magic garden. This ballet ends with a brass chorale in 7/4 time after the Princesses dance a (*) Khorovod. This ballet’s 1919 suite includes a Berceuse (“bair-SUZZ”) featuring a low bassoon solo over harp. Many ’80s pop songs sample the orchestral hit on A and E that opens this ballet’s “Infernal Dance.” In this ballet commissioned by Diaghilev (“dee-AH-ghee-lev”), Ivan Tsarevich summons the title character with her feather to shatter an egg, destroying Kashchei (“kuh-SHAY”) the Immortal. For 10 points, name this first ballet by Igor Stravinsky.
ANSWER: The Firebird [or Zhar-ptitsa] &lt;OL, Classical Music&gt;

554.
ID: 159226  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature European
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 15 (Tiebreakers) | Number: 13
TOSSUP: One of this author’s characters explains his father’s love as “Pure vanity on his part, the besetting sin of all artists in love with their own work, however hideous.” In a play by this author, a sword with the words “all-powerful Death dissolves your vow” written on it in blood is presented by a disguised character. Men throw firebrands into a city’s powder-magazine while rescuing Roller from the gallows in that play by this author, whose protagonist later upholds an (*) oath he made upon Roller’s death by stabbing his betrothed Amelia. This author penned a poem that describes how we enter “fire-drunk” into the “sanctuary” of the title “Daughter of Elysium.” For 10 points, name this German author who wrote about the struggle between Karl and Franz Moor in The Robbers and who penned “Ode to Joy.”
ANSWER: Friedrich Schiller &lt;VS, European Literature&gt;

555.
ID: 159200  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 14 (Finals 2) | Number: 7
TOSSUP: In a paper co-written with Richard Arnott, this economist found that public expenditures tend to increase land rents, a result dubbed the “Henry George theorem.” In another paper, this economist and Bruce Greenwald used the insurance market to illustrate their finding that imperfect information prevents Pareto optimality. After winning the Nobel with Akerlof and Spence for their work in information (*) asymmetry, this economist criticized “market fundamentalism” in his acceptance essay. This economist criticized the concentration of economic and political power in his 2012 book The Price of Inequality. For 10 points, name this economist who drew on his experience as the World Bank’s chief economist to write his book Globalization and Its Discontents.
ANSWER: Joseph Stiglitz [or Joseph Eugene Stiglitz] &lt;WC, Social Science&gt;

556.
ID: 159196  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Philosophy | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 14 (Finals 2) | Number: 3
TOSSUP: To view its author’s thought as continuously therapeutic, James Conant and Cora Diamond have promoted this book’s so-called “resolute reading.” This book employs a logic with an N-operator that is an infinitary analogue of the Sheffer stroke. It argues that the aim of philosophy is logical clarification of thoughts. G. K. Ogden produced an English translation of his book, which argues that since the tautologies do not represent reality, they are (*) senseless. It contains the famous dictum “what can be shown cannot be said.” This book with an introduction by Bertrand Russell argues that propositions are pictures of atomic facts. For 10 points, the proposition “the world is everything that is the case” begins what early work of Ludwig Wittgenstein?
ANSWER: Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus &lt;CK, Philosophy&gt;

557.
ID: 159230  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 15 (Tiebreakers) | Number: 17
TOSSUP: Porkchop plots represent the solutions to Lambert’s problem that define these structures, and they correspond to rectangles on cobweb plots. The Laplace–Runge–Lenz (“la-PLOSS ROON-guh LENTS”) vector is a conserved quantity for these structures. An effective potential with a centrifugal term is used to simplify a differential equation characterizing these structures. Tidal forces can cause phase lag, resulting in the decay of these structures. The virial (“VEE-ree-ul”) theorem relates the average potential and kinetic energy for these structures, which are solutions to the (*) Kepler problem. Hohmann derived a minimum-energy procedure to transfer between two of these paths. These trajectories are characterized by eccentricity and are followed by objects with negative total energy and speeds that remain below escape velocity. For 10 points, name these trajectories, the paths traced by gravitationally bound objects around the Sun.
ANSWER: orbits [accept elliptical orbits, or Kepler orbits, or closed orbits; accept anything indicating bodies orbiting each other; prompt on two-body system or problem by asking “what dynamical situation are the bodies in?” until “paths” is read; prompt on orbital elements or Keplerian elements in the first line by asking “which define what structures?”] &lt;GR, Physics&gt;

558.
ID: 159231  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Trash | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 15 (Tiebreakers) | Number: 18
TOSSUP: The solution to the standard independence problem for this piece is 14. The Trompowsky attack counters Indian openings by moving this piece to g5. During the “Game of the Century,” a 13-year-old Bobby Fischer launched a famous attack by moving this piece to e6, deliberately sacrificing his queen in the process. A quip by Mihai Suba claims that “bad” types of these pieces “protect good pawns.” A “Greek (*) gift” sacrifices this piece by taking the opponent’s kingside pawn at h2 or h7. This is the third piece moved by both White and Black in the Giuoco (“j’WOCK-oh”) Piano. White attacks Black’s knight with this piece on the third move of the Ruy (“ROO-ee”) López opening. The movement of this piece, which can be “fianchettoed” (“fee-an-CHET-toed”), is combined with that of a rook to yield the movement of a queen. For 10 points, name this chess piece that only moves diagonally.
ANSWER: bishops [prompt on B] &lt;JL, Other&gt;

559.
ID: 159197  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature World
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 14 (Finals 2) | Number: 4
TOSSUP: The narrator of this novel spies on a more senior fellow employee and discovers that he is secretly Muslim. The narrator of this novel imagines a woman removing money from a bag that she gives him before leaving her husband. That woman in this novel drunkenly runs over a child, leading her father-in law to attempt to frame the protagonist for it. This novel’s narrator calls his education “half-baked,” describes his country as “The (*) Darkness,” and writes of his desire to escape the “Rooster Coop.” This novel is framed as a letter that the narrator is writing to the Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao about what he views the true India to be. For 10 points, name this novel in which the taxi driver Balram Halwai earns the title nickname, a work by Aravind Adiga (“UH-ruh-vind UH-dee-guh”).
ANSWER: The White Tiger &lt;JH, World/Other Literature&gt;

560.
ID: 159201  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 14 (Finals 2) | Number: 8
TOSSUP: Anti-de Sitter space is named because it has an opposite value for this quantity compared to de Sitter space. The big omega parameter in the FLRW metric must be exactly one for a particular type of this quantity to be zero. Manifolds where this quantity is zero correspond to vacuum solutions with vanishing cosmological constant. This quantity can be calculated by contracting a related tensor symbolized R-mu-nu over the metric. The Einstein tensor includes the metric times the (*) scalar form of this quantity. The “spacetime tells matter how to move” part of John Wheeler’s summary of general relativity refers to this quantity being nonzero. Geodesics generalize the concept of a straight line to a spacetime where this quantity is nonzero. For 10 points, name this concept from general relativity that quantifies how much a spacetime deviates from being flat.
ANSWER: curvature [or scalar curvature of space-time; accept Ricci curvature scalar; accept spatial (scalar) curvature after “big omega” is read; accept cosmological constant before “big omega” is read] &lt;GR, Physics&gt;

561.
ID: 159193  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 13 (Finals 1) | Number: 20
TOSSUP: A painting titled for this country includes a broken tree shrine and two miniscule salamanders representing evil. The artist’s time working for Mehmed II inspired a painting set in this country that depicts a giraffe and a camel in a public square where a group of seated, white-hooded figures listen to a saint preach; that painting is by Gentile (“jen-TEE-lay”) Bellini. A painting inspired by Joachim Patinir (“YO-ah-kheem PAH-tee-neer”) by Bruegel and a lunette by Annibale Carracci (“ah-NEE-ba-lay ka-RAH-chee”) are among the best-known treatments of a (*) scene titled for this country. Early adopters of landscape painting often treated that scene titled for this country, one variant of which typically depicts a resting donkey, Mary, and Joseph. For 10 points, Renaissance artists often depicted the Biblical “flight into” what country?
ANSWER: Egypt [accept flight into Egypt] &lt;JH, Painting &amp; Sculpture&gt; Bonuses

562.
ID: 159192  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 13 (Finals 1) | Number: 19
TOSSUP: In a 2017 op-ed, Heather Ann Thompson showed that before this event, Dr. Michael Bandriss had conducted secret human experiments on leprosy; that op-ed followed the book Blood on the Water about this event. During this event, L. D. Barkley gave a speech declaring “We are men! We are not beasts and do not intend to be beaten or driven as such.” Russell Oswald represented the government in crisis (*) negotiations during this event. Frank “Big Black” Smith served as a leader during this event that saw over a thousand people gather in the D Yard. 38 people died in this event after Nelson Rockefeller ordered state police to retake the prison where this event took place. For 10 points, name this September 1971 riot in which prisoners took over a prison in upstate New York.
ANSWER: Attica Prison riot &lt;AE, American History&gt;

563.
ID: 159194  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 14 (Finals 2) | Number: 1
TOSSUP: This tribe was attacked in Logan’s Raid, in which Edward McGarry murdered the elderly chief Moluntha when Moluntha mistakenly said that he had been at the Battle of Blue Licks. Fighting alongside Little Turtle of the Miamis, a chief from this tribe inflicted casualties equal to about a fourth of the entire US Army during the Battle of the Wabash. A comet and the New Madrid earthquake helped a member of this tribe called “the (*) Prophet” assemble a confederacy. Blue Jacket was a chief from this tribe who fought at the Battle of Fallen Timbers. A brother of “the Prophet” led this tribe and their allies to a defeat by William Henry Harrison in the Battle of Tippecanoe. For 10 points, name this Native American tribe from the Ohio River Valley that was led by Tecumseh.
ANSWER: Shawnee &lt;AE, American History&gt;

564.
ID: 159191  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 13 (Finals 1) | Number: 18
TOSSUP: Anderson developed a model of antiferromagnetic spins on a triangular lattice whose ground state is described with this word. Quasiparticles called spinons and chargeons propagate separately due to spin charge separation in a one-dimensional model described by this word that was first proposed by Tomonaga. That model contrasts with a more general model described by this word where interacting fermions form quasiparticles. That model, used to describe interacting electrons in a metal as one these things, was developed by Landau. The semi-empirical (*) mass formula is based on a model described by this word includes that includes separate volume energy and surface energy terms. That model describes atomic nuclei as “this word” drops. For 10 points, name this word that emphasizes disordered systems, named for a phase of matter contrasted with weakly interacting gases.
ANSWER: liquids [accept spin liquid or Luttinger liquid model or liquid drop model or (Landau) Fermi liquid; accept “quantum” in front of any preceding answers] &lt;GR, Physics&gt;

565.
ID: 159195  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 14 (Finals 2) | Number: 2
TOSSUP: Though they are derived from the kidney, HEK 293 cells are used as laboratory analogs for the immature version of these cells. Rab7 and RILP regulate vesicle transport in these cells, and a BDNF gradient promotes endsome mobility in them. Orthograde transport in these cells is carried out by kinesin motor proteins, while dyneins (“DYNE-ins”) carry vesicles toward the soma of these cells. One type of receptor on these cells has an allosteric binding site for zinc and is co-activated by (*) glycine and glutamate. Those receptors are involved in spike timing plasticity and long-term potentiation in these cells. A membrane protein in these cells uses ATP to move three sodium ions out of them, maintaining their resting potential. For 10 points, name these cells that contain axons and dendrites, the basic units of the nervous system.
ANSWER: neurons [prompt on nerve cells until read] &lt;GR, Biology&gt;

566.
ID: 159202  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Religion | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 14 (Finals 2) | Number: 9
TOSSUP: A stanza of a lyric written by a member of this family implores the Holy Spirit to “let us all in thee inherit, / let us find the promised rest; / take away the love of sinning.” That stanza, often omitted for its stance toward free will, is from the hymn “Love Divine, All Loves Excelling,” written by a member of this family who wrote over 4,500 hymns including (*) “Hark! The Herald Angels Sing.” Aldersgate Day celebrates how a member of this family felt his heart “strangely warmed” in a conversion experience. Two brothers from this family founded a “Holy Club” at Oxford through which they met the itinerant preacher George Whitefield, with whom they carried out the First Great Awakening. For 10 points, name this family, whose brothers John and Charles founded Methodism.
ANSWER: Wesley family [accept John Wesley or Charles Wesley] &lt;WC, Religion&gt;

567.
ID: 159217  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 15 (Tiebreakers) | Number: 4
TOSSUP: Geoffrey Pullum argued that early linguists failed to appreciate that this people’s language was agglutinative in an article about this people’s “great vocabulary hoax.” In Systems of Consanguinity and Affinity, Lewis Henry Morgan used this ethnic group as the name for kinship systems that do not distinguish between patrilineal and matrilineal ancestors, but instead emphasize distance. As evidence of linguistic-relativity, Benjamin Whorf infamously cited Franz Boas’s erroneous claim that these people have an unusually high number of (*) words for precipitation. In a famous work of salvage ethnography, Robert J. Flaherty filmed a documentary about a man from this ethnic group married to Nyla who apocryphally died of starvation two years after its completion. For 10 points, name this ethnic group documented in the film Nanook of the North.
ANSWER: Inuit [accept Eskimo] &lt;JL, Social Science&gt;

568.
ID: 159186  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Other
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 13 (Finals 1) | Number: 13
TOSSUP: In September 2017, IceCube detected a high-energy neutrino produced by one of these objects, TSX 0506+056. Highly variable examples of these objects are in a subclass named for BL Lacertae that have relatively flat spectra with significant optical polarization. These objects have nonthermal spectra, and one type of these objects has two classes distinguished by the presence of broad emission lines indicating diffuse gas. LINERs (“liners”) are a similar type of these objects that show strong lines from ionized species. Unusually broad emission lines characterize a radio-quiet type of these objects exemplified by M77 and discovered by (*) Seyfert. Relativistic jets form at the poles of an accretion disk in these objects, which have a supermassive black hole at their center. For 10 points, name these bright objects at the center of galaxies, including blazars and quasars.
ANSWER: active galactic nuclei [or AGNs; accept BL Lacertae objects until read; anti-prompt on Seyfert galaxies or quasars or blazars until read; accept quasars until “BL Lacertae” is read] &lt;GR, Other Science: Astronomy&gt;

569.
ID: 159185  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 13 (Finals 1) | Number: 12
TOSSUP: A player of this instrument collaborated with Philip Glass on the album Passages. Electric versions of this instrument rely on a “buzz bridge.” At the 1966 Bath Music Festival, a virtuoso of this instrument recorded the album East Meets West with Yehudi Menuhin (“yeh-HOO-dee MEN-yoo-in”). In order to play an extra seven semitones, players bend a string across this instrument’s movable arched frets in a technique called meend. This instrument’s three primary strokes are named (*) da, ra, and dir, and its sympathetic strings must be retuned to play different ragas. The Beatles’ George Harrison studied under the best-known player of this instrument who composed the score for Satyajit Ray’s Apu Trilogy. Ravi Shankar popularized, for 10 points, what droning gourd-shaped Hindustani instrument?
ANSWER: sitar &lt;CK, Other Arts&gt;

570.
ID: 159187  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 13 (Finals 1) | Number: 14
TOSSUP: A general from this family took command of the artillery at the Battle of Nezib after the Ottoman commander Ibrahim Pasha refused to listen to any of his advice. That general from this family developed a system to increase his subordinates’ autonomy by giving them “general directives” instead of specific commands. That general from this family also encouraged the use of (*) kriegsspiel (“KREEGS-shpeel”), or wargames, as part of officer training for the General Staff. Another general from this family attempted to implement the Schlieffen Plan and resigned following the failure of the Marne Campaign. For 10 points, name this family that produced two generals named Helmuth: “the Elder” who led Prussia in the Seven Weeks’ War and “the Younger” who led Germany in World War I.
ANSWER: von Moltke family [accept Helmuth von Moltke the Elder or Helmuth von Moltke the Younger] &lt;AE, European History&gt;

571.
ID: 159183  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature European
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 13 (Finals 1) | Number: 10
TOSSUP: In a play by this author, a man believes that he is watching the murder of his prodigal son, but finds out that his son is acting in a play. That play, which is framed as a vision conjured by a cave-dwelling magician, was adapted by Tony Kushner in 2002. In another play by this author, the title character is told that “He who can outlive / His father’s honour’s an unworthy son” as he confronts a man who insulted his father for using intrigue to become the royal tutor. That play was targeted in a (*) pamphlet campaign that led Jean Chapelain (“shap-LANN”) to condemn this author of The Comic Illusion for violating the three unities. He wrote a tragicomedy about a knight who kills Don Gomés, the father of his lover Chimène (“shee-MEN”), then reconciles with her after fighting off a Moorish invasion. For 10 points, name this French playwright of Le Cid.
ANSWER: Pierre Corneille (“cor-NAY”) &lt;WC, European Literature&gt;

572.
ID: 159182  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History British
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 13 (Finals 1) | Number: 9
TOSSUP: In The Making of the English Working Class, E. P. Thompson described a political myth about freedom before this monarch and his “armed banditti.” A succession dispute between two of this monarch’s sons was resolved by the Treaty of Alton, by which the elder son abandoned his claim. Pope Alexander II gave his blessing to a campaign planned by this monarch at his castle of Lillebonne. This monarch carried out massacres in (*) Northumbria to suppress a rebellion led by Edgar the Atheling as part of this monarch’s “Harrying of the North.” This monarch, whose survey of his holdings resulted in the Domesday Book, defeated the housecarls of Harold Godwinson in 1066 during the Battle of Hastings. For 10 points, name this first Norman king of England.
ANSWER: William the Conqueror [or William I; or William the Bastard] &lt;AE, European History&gt;

573.
ID: 159184  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Current Events | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 13 (Finals 1) | Number: 11
TOSSUP: Immediately after the implementation of this legislation, the activist Max Schrems and his NYOB organization launched 8.8 billion dollars of lawsuits based on this legislation. Owen Williams created a website called this legislation’s “Wall of Shame” to call out companies that comply poorly with this legislation. Article 25 of this legislation calls for companies to incorporate (*) “privacy by design” and “privacy by default.” This legislation establishes a “right to be forgotten,” meaning that individuals are entitled to ask companies to erase their personal data. In January 2019, the CNIL levied an 80-million-dollar fine on Google for failing to comply with this legislation. For 10 points, name this recent EU legislation that sets the EU’s rules for data protection.
ANSWER: GDPR [or General Data Protection Regulation; prompt on answers that mention the EU or European Union privacy law or legislation, such as EU privacy regulations, EU data regulations, EU internet regulations, etc.] &lt;WC, Other&gt;

574.
ID: 159188  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 13 (Finals 1) | Number: 15
TOSSUP: This system is modeled as purely attentional in Cowan’s embedded-processes model. Uttering something irrelevant inhibits this system in an effect called articulatory suppression. Information is added to this system in maintenance rehearsal, but not elaborative rehearsal. Baddeley and Hitch created a model of this system in which it is divided into a “central executive” that controls a (*) “visuo-spatial sketchpad” and a “phonological loop.” The effort used by this system is termed cognitive load, and research has found that children with ADHD have impaired frontal lobes leading to deficits in this system. A strategy called “chunking” can improve this system’s capacity, which George Miller argued is the “magic number” seven plus-or-minus two. For 10 points, name this cognitive system that temporarily stores and manipulates information.
ANSWER: working memory [prompt on memory or short-term memory] &lt;CK, Social Science&gt;

575.
ID: 159179  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Philosophy | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 13 (Finals 1) | Number: 6
TOSSUP: This thinker characterized theories as claims about the existence of observable events, which he called “basic statements.” In his work on quantum mechanics, he argued that probabilities are properties of experiments, pioneering the propensity interpretation of probability. He argued that both Marxist theories of history and Freudian psychoanalysis were pseudoscientific because they failed to make “bold” predictions. Paul (*) Feyerabend (“FYE-ur-AH-bint”) criticized this thinker’s view that science is deductive, not inductive. In his best-known work, this author of Conjectures and Refutations rejected verifiability as a suitable criterion of demarcation. For 10 points, name this philosopher who argued that scientific theories are falsifiable in The Logic of Scientific Discovery.
ANSWER: Karl Popper &lt;CK, Philosophy&gt;

576.
ID: 159178  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature World
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 13 (Finals 1) | Number: 5
TOSSUP: This character is perturbed when the lice he eats make less of a sound than those eaten by a bewhiskered man. This character is saved from a dog when one of the four turnips he had just stolen falls and startles it. A man yells “turtle’s egg!” while beating up this character for throwing himself at a maid’s feet and asking her to sleep with him. That occurs because this character frequently thinks “Woman…” after he is cursed to be sonless by a little (*) nun whom he accuses of being intimate with a priest. This character antagonizes a man who went to another country and lost his ponytail by calling him a “Foreign Imitation Devil.” This man calls himself an insect and slaps himself in the face to turn his defeats into “spiritual victories.” For 10 points, name this bumbling character who titles a “True Story” by Lu Xun (“loo shwin”).
ANSWER: Ah Q [accept “The True Story of Ah Q”] &lt;VS, World/Other Literature&gt;

577.
ID: 159180  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 13 (Finals 1) | Number: 7
TOSSUP: This molecule and tricyclohexylphosphine (“tri-cyclo-hexyl-phosphine”) bind to nickel in the square-planar Aresta’s complex. In a process that chemists have recently catalyzed with polystyrene beads, magnesite forms from olivine in the presence of this compound. Before the advent of Freon, ammonia and this molecule were the two dominant refrigerants. A type of high-power continuous wave laser that operates at wavelengths around 10 microns uses a gas of this molecule for its gain medium. This molecule is an alternative to organic solvents as a (*) supercritical fluid. Bending and asymmetric stretching modes make this linear molecule a strong IR absorber. This compound reacts with water to form carbonic acid, meaning that it causes ocean acidification. For 10 points, name this triatomic, carbon-containing molecule, a product of combustion and a greenhouse gas.
ANSWER: carbon dioxide [or CO2] &lt;GR, Chemistry&gt;

578.
ID: 159176  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 13 (Finals 1) | Number: 3
TOSSUP: During this dynasty, Qín Jiǔsháo (“cheen j’yoh-shao”) wrote the Mathematical Treatise in Nine Sections featuring methods for solving polynomials of up to the 14th degree. This dynasty’s court made use of pottery with crackled glaze called guān (“gwen”) wear, and during its rule the Lóngquán (“long-ch’wen”) kilns began to produce celadon pottery. This dynasty’s first emperor, Zhào Kuāngyìn (“jao kwong-yeen”), took power after overthrowing the Later Zhōu (“joe”) in the capital of (*) Kāifēng (“kye-fung”). This dynasty fell after its decisive defeat during the naval Battle of Yámén (“ya-mun”). Technological inventions that took place during this dynasty include movable type and gunpowder weapons. For 10 points, name this dynasty whose “Southern” period came to an end after a Kublai Khan-led Mongol invasion replaced it with the Yuán (“y’wen”) Dynasty.
ANSWER: Song Dynasty [or Sòng Dynasty] &lt;JS, World History&gt;

579.
ID: 158934  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature European
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 01 | Number: 1
TOSSUP: Thomas Muntzer appears as “The Coiner” in a novel from this country, in which the protagonist adopts the alias “Titian” while distributing the text The Benefit of Christ Crucified. The historical novel Q was written under the name “Luther Blissett” by a group of activists from this country who now use the pseudonym Wu Ming. A deformed man who speaks a “Babelish” mix of languages is revealed to be an ex-Dulcinist in a novel from this country in which the narrator loses his virginity on a kitchen floor to an unnamed (*) peasant girl. In that novel from this country, the inquisitor Bernard Gui investigates a rash of corpses with stained tongues, including one found in a vat of pig’s blood. A blind monk devours a poisoned book at this end of a novel from this country narrated by Adso of Melk. For 10 points, name this home country of The Name of the Rose author Umberto Eco.
ANSWER: Italy &lt;AP, European Literature&gt;

580.
ID: 158935  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 01 | Number: 2
TOSSUP: A princess born in this country wrote a memorandum against the 1890 Heligoland–Zanzibar Treaty and was denounced along with her sister as “the center of the international anti-German conspiracy.” Those two princesses from this country were Alexandra and Maria Feodorovna. A queen and regent of this country was opposed by a band of pirates called the Victual Brothers during a siege against Albert of (*) Mecklenburg. That queen of this country, Margaret I, adopted her nephew Erik of Pomerania as her heir, who was coronated as the monarch of three realms during a meeting in Kalmar, thus inaugurating the Kalmar Union. For 10 points, name this Scandinavian country where Queen Margrethe II currently reigns from Amalienborg Palace in Copenhagen.
ANSWER: Denmark [or Danmark] &lt;AE, European History&gt;

581.
ID: 158937  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 01 | Number: 4
TOSSUP: A Takashi Miike (“MEE-kay”) film titled for this character takes place during the Genpei (“ghem-pay”) War and follows a lone gunman who travels to Yuta and stumbles into a conflict between the Genji and Heike (“HAY-keh”). A Union soldier with this name comes into conflict with the Confederate Red Shirts and a band of Mexican revolutionaries in Sergio Corbucci’s loose adaptation of Yojimbo. In another film titled for a character of this name, Franco Nero makes a cameo as (*) Amerigo Vessepi, a mandingo trader. Another character with this name is freed by a German bounty hunter who was once a dentist and embarks on a quest to save his wife Broomhilda from Candyland. For 10 points, give the name of a character who is “Unchained” in a 2012 film by Quentin Tarantino.
ANSWER: Django [accept Django Unchained] &lt;JH, Other Arts&gt;

582.
ID: 158938  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 01 | Number: 5
TOSSUP: In a field experiment in Kenya, Dupas and Robinson found that when offered a formal way to do this action, female market vendors were significantly more likely to participate than male boda taxi drivers. Members in ROSCAs (“ROSS-kuhs”) lose reputation when they fail to meet their collective informal obligations to perform this action. Edmund Phelps used a fable about an imaginary kingdom called Solovia to describe a (*) “golden rule” about this action, which has been formulated as “do unto future generations as we hope previous generations did unto us.” In a closed economy, an identity states that this economic quantity is equal to investment. For 10 points, people can choose either to consume or do what with their income?
ANSWER: savings [or save or word forms; accept accumulation; accept investment until it is read; anti-prompt on paying loans] &lt;WC, Social Science&gt;

583.
ID: 159175  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 13 (Finals 1) | Number: 2
TOSSUP: One class of proteins that undergoes this process is named for binding to bilirubin. The intercalating agent propidium iodide is an example of a molecule that undergoes this process, which “activates” cell sorting in flow cytometry. The DNA binding (*) DAPI stain can undergo this process and is commonly used to identify cell nuclei in techniques including PALM and STED. A form of microscopy that achieves deeper penetration depth than confocal microscopy uses a dye that undergoes a two-photon form of this process. This process occurs in a protein with a beta-barrel motif and was derived from the jellyfish Aequorea victoria. For 10 points, name this process in which electromagnetic radiation is absorbed and emitted as light at a lower energy.
ANSWER: fluorescence [or biofluorescence; do not accept “luminescence” or “bioluminescence”] &lt;SY, Biology&gt;

584.
ID: 158942  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 01 | Number: 9
TOSSUP: This artist prepended the letter “f” to his name in the only signature in his oeuvre, which is visible in a pool of blood in a painting that was executed as a passage fee for the Knights of Malta. This artist had to repaint one work to show a bearded man kneeling on a stool in response to complaints that he’d placed a dirty foot too close to the altar. This artist mocked a rival by depicting a horse’s buttocks facing toward that rival’s work in his painting for the Cerasi (“cheh-RAH-zee”) Chapel. This artist of The (*) Beheading of Saint John the Baptist fled Rome after killing a man in a street fight. He depicted a saint’s “inspiration” in one of his works for the Contarelli Chapel, another of which depicts a group of men huddled around a table as a bright light illuminates a man being chosen as Jesus’s disciple. For 10 points, name this user of chiaroscuro (“KYAH-ro-SKOO-ro”) who painted The Calling of Saint Matthew.
ANSWER: Caravaggio [or Michelangelo Merisi] (The horse buttocks-containing painting, Conversion on the Way to Damascus, was aimed at a work of Annibale Carracci.) &lt;JH, Painting &amp; Sculpture&gt;

585.
ID: 159177  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 13 (Finals 1) | Number: 4
TOSSUP: This composer wrote the virtuoso sacred motet “In furore iustissimae irae.” A 12-section choral work by this composer opens with trumpet, oboe, and strings leaping between two octave Ds in a low–high–low–low pattern and was lost until the 1920s. Cellos open a piece by this composer with a bar of slow staccato eighth notes on F, then higher strings join in each successive bar to build up the chord F, G, D-flat, and B-flat with quick mordents. In 1939, Alfredo Casella popularized this composer’s setting of the (*) Gloria in D major. This composer’s Mandolin Concerto in C major is often paired with four concerti grossi he published with sonnets. Rapid ascending minor scales and tremolos depict thunderstorms in the first two works in this composer’s collection The Contest Between Harmony and Invention. For 10 points, name this Italian Baroque composer of The Four Seasons.
ANSWER: Antonio Vivaldi &lt;AE, Classical Music&gt;

586.
ID: 158944  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Mythology | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 01 | Number: 11
TOSSUP: After she accidentally killed her own son in an attempt to murder one of Niobe’s children, this sort of event happened to Aedon. It’s not related to drowning, but this action happened to a king and queen of Trachis after they were punished for calling each other “Zeus” and “Hera.” Demeter buried a daimon under a rock, then performed this action on him after Heracles freed him, because he told the gods that Persephone ate pomegranate seeds in the underworld. In the (*) Metamorphoses, two women undergo this transformation while being pursued by Tereus for the murder of Itys (“itis”). Ceyx (“SEE-ix”) and Alcyone (“al-SY-uh-nee”) undergo this transformation, as do Procne and Philomela. Another transformation of this type led to the birth of Clytemnestra and Helen, as well as Castor and Pollux. For 10 points, name this transformation undergone by Zeus to rape Leda, which resulted in her laying eggs.
ANSWER: turning into a bird [accept being turned into a bird; accept specific birds like nightingale, kingfisher, swallow, owl, or swan in place of “bird”] (The daimon is Ascalaphus.) &lt;JS, Mythology&gt;

587.
ID: 158947  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 01 | Number: 14
TOSSUP: A woman who was raised among practitioners of this activity on Lant Street is tricked into entering an insane asylum by “Gentleman” Rivers in a 2002 novel. A character who engages in this activity exclaims “I am an Englishman; Where are my privileges?” while on trial. An archaic euphemism for this non-sexual activity titles a novel by Sarah Waters about Sue Trinder. While living on Saffron Hill, the title character of a novel initially believes that a (*) group that engages in this activity makes handkerchiefs for a living. Mr. Brownlow attempts to save a boy from getting caught up in this activity after Charley Bates targets him with it. Fagin (“FAYG-in”) trains a group of children to engage in this crime. For 10 points, the Artful Dodger excels at what type of street crime in Dickens’s Oliver Twist?
ANSWER: pickpocketing [accept stealing, thieving, petty theft, or being a fingersmith; prompt on larceny, or anything less specific about (street) crime] &lt;JH, British Literature&gt;

588.
ID: 158948  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Geography | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 01 | Number: 15
TOSSUP: It’s not Seattle, but this city contains the largest permanent collection of Dale Chihuly (“chih-HOO-lee”) glassworks. The US Rowing team trains in this city’s Boathouse District on the North Canadian River. The American Banjo Museum is located in this city’s entertainment district called Bricktown. Following Hurricane Katrina, the New Orleans (*) Hornets played home games in this city. A memorial for a non-9/11 terrorist attack in this city includes the Survivor Tree and the Field of Empty Chairs. This city houses the National Cowboy &amp; Western Heritage Museum. In this city, the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building was truck-bombed in 1995 by Timothy McVeigh. For 10 points, name this capital of the state that is directly north of Texas.
ANSWER: Oklahoma City [or OKC] &lt;CK, Other&gt;

589.
ID: 158950  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 01 | Number: 17
TOSSUP: This organization created the Index of American Design, a collection of about 18,000 watercolors of American decorative art. While working for this organization, Elmer Rice produced Ethiopia, an example of a “Living Newspaper” play that dramatized current events. Lyndon B. Johnson got his political start as a Texas director of this organization’s National (*) Youth Administration. Allegations of patronage surrounding this agency led to the introduction of the Hatch Act. This agency, which superseded FERA, included Federal Project Number One, which supported cultural programs that employed actors, artists, and writers. For 10 points, name this New Deal agency that was led by Harry Hopkins, which employed millions of people to build public works.
ANSWER: WPA [or Works Progress Administration or Work Projects Administration; accept Federal Project Number One until “Lyndon” is read, then anti-prompt after; accept Federal Art Project until “Elmer” is read, then anti-prompt after] &lt;WC, American History&gt;

590.
ID: 158951  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Math
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 01 | Number: 18
TOSSUP: Alexander Grothendieck (“GRO-ten-deek”) names a means of constructing these objects from commutative monoids, which is useful in K-theory. Homotopy classes of loops at a chosen basepoint in a topological space form one of these objects often symbolized pi-sub-one. Galois (“gal-WAH”) theory uses examples of these objects consisting of automorphisms to study fields. The Sylow (“SEE-lohv”) theorems relate to the (*) order of these objects, which equals their index times the cardinality of their left cosets according to the theorem of Lagrange. These structures are sets with a binary operation that has associativity, identity, and inverse properties and are often used to study symmetry. For 10 points, name these algebraic structures, the commutative form of which are called “abelian.”
ANSWER: groups [accept abelian groups] &lt;JN, Other Science: Mathematics&gt;

591.
ID: 159181  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Religion | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 13 (Finals 1) | Number: 8
TOSSUP: A prayer from this book frequently repeats the refrain “sing praise to him and highly exalt him forever” after calling on God’s various creations to bless the Lord. That prayer is found in a passage in this book named after Azariah and the “Three Holy Children,” which Protestants regard as apocryphal. Another apocryphal passage in this book involves two elders who bear false witness and attempt to rape a young woman named (*) Susanna. This book’s narrator has a vision of four beasts coming out of the sea and a judgement being issued by the Ancient of Days. This book’s namesake prophet interprets the “writing on the wall” during Belshazzar’s feast. For 10 points, name this book of the Hebrew Bible in which the titular prophet survives being thrown in a lion’s den.
ANSWER: Book of Daniel &lt;WC, Religion&gt;

592.
ID: 158956  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 02 | Number: 3
TOSSUP: A knight from this region married Sikelgaita, who rallied his men at a battle that ended with the Varangian Guard being burnt alive in a church named for the archangel Michael. A queen from this region married both Æthelred the Unready and Canute the Great. A succession dispute over this region was settled after the Battle of Tinchebray (“tan-shuh-BRAY”). A knight from this region defeated Alexius Comnenus in the Battle of Dyrrhachium; that knight was (*) Robert Guiscard (“geese-CAR”). In the Treaty of Saint-Clair-sur-Epte, Charles the Simple agreed to cede this region to Rollo. During the Hundred Years’ War, the Battle of Formigny (“for-meen-YEE”) marked this region’s reconquest by France from England. For 10 points, name this region in northern France that saw several beach landings on D-Day.
ANSWER: Normandy [or Normandie] &lt;CK, European History&gt;

593.
ID: 158958  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 02 | Number: 5
TOSSUP: This text inspired Wyschnegradsky’s symphony for four quarter-tone pianos and Boulez’s (“boo-LEZZ’s”) 1974 incidental music for Barrault’s (“bah-RO’s”) theater. Frederick Delius’s (“DEE-lee-us’s”) long cantata A Mass of Life sets this text. The 1902 Budapest premiere of a piece based on this text inspired Béla Bartók’s early tone poem Kossuth (“KOH-shoot”). Gustav Mahler planned to title his Third Symphony after this book, and an alto solo in its slow fourth movement sets the (*) “Midnight Song.” A tone poem based on this book features a fugue on all 12 pitches in the movement “Of Science,” an unresolved B major and C major conflict, a “world riddle,” and a rising C G C brass fanfare, or “dawn motif,” that opens 2001: A Space Odyssey. For 10 points, name this philosophical text by Friedrich Nietzsche (“NEE-chuh”) that Richard Strauss adapted into a tone poem.
ANSWER: Also sprach Zarathustra (“ALL-zoh shprock tsah-rah-TOOS-trah”) [or Thus Spoke Zarathustra or Thus Spake Zarathustra; or Ainsi parlait Zarathoustra or Ainsi parla Zarathoustra; accept Zoroaster in place of “Zarathustra”; prompt on Zarathustra] &lt;JN, Classical Music&gt;

594.
ID: 158959  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 02 | Number: 6
TOSSUP: The Arabic-based sorabe (“so-ra-BAY”) script was used to transcribe the language of this place, which received a group of Muslim settlers from Sumatra named after an ancestor named Ramini. The Sakalava people dominated this place during the 18th century and monopolized its slave trade. On this island, a cathedral was built on a cliff where Christian martyrs were hurled to their deaths on the orders of Queen (*) Ranavalona I. In 1895, the French established a protectorate over this island after occupying the capital of this island’s Merina Kingdom. In 1958, Philibert Tsiranana became the first president of this island country after a referendum established the Malagasy Republic. For 10 points, name this large island country, whose capital is Antananarivo.
ANSWER: Madagascar [or Madagasikara] &lt;JH, World History&gt;

595.
ID: 158962  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 02 | Number: 9
TOSSUP: Comb generators and sample phase detectors make use of one of these devices with very low doping near the junction. Clipping circuits use these devices to limit the maximum voltage of a waveform. One type of these asymmetric devices relies on minority charge carriers tunneling from the valence band to the conduction band. Another type of these devices contains a metal–semiconductor interface. Those types of these circuit elements are named for (*) Zener and Schottky. Full-wave rectifiers connect four of these circuit elements in a square pattern. These circuit elements only conduct in the reverse direction when the reverse bias exceeds their breakdown voltage. For 10 points, name these circuit elements that ideally allow current to flow in only one direction, exemplified by a light-emitting type.
ANSWER: diodes [accept step-recovery diodes, Schottky diodes, Zener diodes, or light-emitting diodes] &lt;GR, Physics&gt;

596.
ID: 158963  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 02 | Number: 10
TOSSUP: This man concluded, “To be a man is to suffer for others,” in a speech announcing the end of a 25-day fast. Miriam Pawel’s biography of this man revealed that he was inspired by Synanon (“sin-anon”) to encourage members of his organization to verbally attack one another as part of “the Game.” After the ALRB ran out of money, this man unsuccessfully campaigned for Proposition 14. In opposition to backdoor (*) contracts signed with the Teamsters, this man launched the Salad Bowl strike. Dolores Huerta coined the slogan “Sí, se puede!” that was popularized by this man. In 1965, the NFA, led by this man, joined a strike of Filipino grape pickers in California. For 10 points, a holiday on March 31 honors what Latino labor leader, a founder of the United Farm Workers?
ANSWER: Cesar Chavez [or Cesar Estrada Chavez] &lt;WC, American History&gt;

597.
ID: 158965  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 02 | Number: 12
TOSSUP: The French dentist Laurent Mourguet (“lo-RON moor-GAY”) created one of these objects that has since become a symbol of the city of Lyon and its silk workers, the canuts (“kah-NOO”). A still-extant “College of Professors” is made up of people who use an instrument called the swazzle to manipulate these objects. Gamelan music accompanies Indonesian wayang (“WAH-yahng”) performances with these objects. Chanters and musicians playing a three-string skin-covered lute called (*) shamisen (“shah-mee-sen”) typically accompany a Japanese art form centered on these objects, bunraku. Jim Henson performed the song “Bein’ Green” using one of these objects. For 10 points, Punch and Judy exemplify what objects, whose limbs and mouth are moved by the person who voices them?
ANSWER: puppets [accept specific types of puppets like sock puppets or glove puppets or shadow puppets; accept marionettes; accept puppeteers; prompt on shadows; anti-prompt on Muppets] (The puppet in the first line is Guignol.) &lt;AP, Other Arts&gt;

598.
ID: 158966  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 02 | Number: 13
TOSSUP: In a 1981 study, Lewis and Perkin applied corrections to previous calculations of this quantity by converting those results to the PSS-78 standard. A method of determining this quantity is the Mohr–Knudsen titration, which uses a silver nitrate solution as the titrant. A common value for this quantity is 35 psu (“P-S-U”). A class of plants including glasswort tolerates high levels of this quantity, which is used in the Venice system to classify (*) bodies of water. Along with temperature, differences in this quantity cause density gradients that drive thermohaline circulation. In an estuary, this quantity is typically highest near the mouth. For 10 points, name this quantity that measures the concentration of sodium and chloride ions dissolved in water.
ANSWER: salinity [or salt concentration; prompt on saltiness; prompt on amount of salt or similar answers; anti-prompt (i.e. ask “can you be less specific?”) on chlorinity or chloride ion concentration] &lt;WC, Other Science: Earth Science&gt;

599.
ID: 159189  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 13 (Finals 1) | Number: 16
TOSSUP: In a story from this collection, a character is scolded for reading The Apache Chief instead of studying Roman history. This collection includes a story whose protagonist angrily shouts “Stop!” when his infant son begins to cry after he reads a Byron poem aloud. In another story, the narrator skips school and meets a strange man who describes whipping little boys for having sweethearts. In addition to depicting Little Chandler in “A (*) Little Cloud,” it includes a story whose narrator visits a porcelain stall run by a proprietress who is preoccupied flirting with two Englishmen. That story’s narrator goes to a bazaar, but fails to purchase a gift for Mangan’s sister. For 10 points, name this collection that includes “An Encounter” and “Araby,” written by James Joyce.
ANSWER: Dubliners &lt;CK, British Literature&gt;

600.
ID: 158970  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Geography | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 02 | Number: 17
TOSSUP: A “ghost city” on the banks of this river features a “Bridge of Helplessness” that features actors dressed up in traditional costumes as the Ghost King and his officials. Continued gold prospecting on a section of this river has led to that section being called the “Gold Dust River.” Oddly-shaped, perforated “scholar’s rocks” are collected from Lake (*) Tài in this river’s delta. This river was once home to a vibrant population of báijì (“bye-jee”) river dolphins, which are now believed to be functionally extinct. A dam built on this river led to a slight slowdown of the Earth’s rotation and the displacement of over 1.3 million people living along this river; that dam is the Three Gorges Dam. For 10 points, the Grand Canal links the Yellow River to what other Chinese river?
ANSWER: Yangtze River [or Yángzǐ Jiāng or Cháng Jiāng] &lt;JH, Other&gt;

601.
ID: 158972  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 02 | Number: 19
TOSSUP: A boy asks a character working in this profession “Do you love me?” after mistaking that character for a visitor to his family’s bakery in Millau (“mee-YO”). The narrator describes leaving university to work in this job in Devonshire in Vera Brittain’s memoir Testament of Youth. A character with this job is warned against playing a possibly booby-trapped piano by her future love interest, a Sikh sapper, while living in the (*) abandoned Villa San Girolamo. Briony (“BRY-nee”) Tallis works in this profession in the third part of Ian McEwan’s (“muck-YOO-in’s”) Atonement. A Canadian member of this profession named Hana assists the title character of Michael Ondaatje’s (“on-DAH-chee’s”) The English Patient. For 10 points, women of what profession are often depicted doing tasks like changing bedpans in novels set during the World Wars?
ANSWER: nurses &lt;JH, British Literature&gt;

602.
ID: 158973  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 02 | Number: 20
TOSSUP: This artist depicted six horses, each accompanied by a wreath-bearing woman, pulling a king surrounded by four cardinal virtues in an ornate chariot. A group of merchants living in Venice commissioned a painting by this artist that depicts St. Dominic handing out flower crowns to worshippers. This artist of Large Triumphal Carriage and Feast of the Rosary used passages from Martin Luther’s translation of the Bible to accompany a diptych (“DIP-tick”) currently housed at the (*) Alte Pinakothek (“ALL-tuh PEE-nah-koh-take”). This artist of The Four Apostles completed a work that shows a skull on the windowsill and a lion and dog sleeping on the floor as the title haloed man writes. In another of his works, a lizard runs to the right beneath a skeletal figure and an armored man, both on horseback. For 10 points, name this German artist of prints like St. Jerome in His Study and Knight, Death, and the Devil.
ANSWER: Albrecht Dürer &lt;JL, Painting &amp; Sculpture&gt; Bonuses

603.
ID: 158976  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Philosophy | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 03 | Number: 3
TOSSUP: In a 2015 paper, Delia Graff Fara argued that bare occurrences of these things are accompanied by an unpronounced determiner, defending the view that they are predicates. Gareth Evans presented an example involving Madagascar as an objection to theories in which these things are evaluated relative to causal (“CAUSE-al”) chains. John Searle (“surl”) developed a “cluster theory” of these things building on Bertrand Russell’s account in which they are (*) “disguised definite descriptions.” To solve a puzzle involving Venus, Gottlob Frege (“FRAY-guh”) posited that they have “senses.” Like natural kind terms, Saul Kripke argued that these terms are rigid designators. Millians hold that these terms refer directly to their bearers. For 10 points, identify these proper nouns, exemplified by “Jack,” “Caleb,” and “Justin.”
ANSWER: names &lt;CK, Philosophy&gt;

604.
ID: 158977  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History Classical
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 03 | Number: 4
TOSSUP: After a ruler of this city got into an argument with Plato over virtue, that ruler encouraged a Spartan named Pollis to assassinate Plato aboard a galley. That ruler of this city rose to power during the chaos following the sack of Akragas and conquered the nearby city of Rhegium. Another ruler of this city, Gelon, restored the power of the landowning gamaroi and won the Battle of (*) Himera against the Carthaginian king Hamilcar. While defending this city from a Roman siege, this city’s ruler Hieron II supposedly hired an inventor from this city to build defense mechanisms like a claw and a heat ray. This city was targeted during the Peloponnesian War by the Sicilian Expedition. For 10 points, name this major Greek city of ancient Sicily that was home to Archimedes.
ANSWER: Syracuse [or Siracusa or Sarausa or Seragusa] &lt;AE, European History&gt;

605.
ID: 158979  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 03 | Number: 6
TOSSUP: In 1963, John Coltrane and this musician recorded a track he composed whose original D minor version’s bridge repeats a D-flat major 1–6–2–5 chord progression, and whose melody opens like Gershwin’s “Someone to Watch Over Me” with a rising 6-note F major pentatonic pickup and long high G. Lorenzo Tio’s “Mexican Blues” inspired a standard he wrote with Barney Bigard that swapped the trombone and clarinet’s registers to create a “mike-tone.” Early in his career, his band’s signature song was “East St. Louis Toodle-Oo,” an example of his (*) “jungle music.” His career was revived after he had Paul Gonsalves play a 27-bar saxophone solo during a performance of “Diminuendo and Crescendo in Blue” at the 1956 Newport Jazz Festival. He composed the standards “In a Sentimental Mood” and “Mood Indigo.” For 10 points, name this jazz pianist who often performed Billy Strayhorn’s “Take the ‘A’ Train.”
ANSWER: Duke Ellington [or Edward Kennedy Ellington] &lt;JL, Other Arts&gt;

606.
ID: 158980  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Other
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 03 | Number: 7
TOSSUP: Measuring this phenomenon can provide a redshift-independent probe of galactic cluster mass, a technique used at observatories like the ATC. The spectrum of this phenomenon is gravitationally changed in the Sachs–Wolfe effect, the integrated form of which takes into account interactions between Earth and the surface of last scattering. The South Pole-based DASI experiment discovered the (*) polarization of this phenomenon, and the BICEP experiments tried to measure the B-mode polarization in this phenomenon caused by gravitational waves in the early Universe. COBE (“KO-bee”) and Planck (“plonk”) were satellite observatories for measuring this phenomenon, which has a nearly perfect blackbody spectrum with a temperature of 2.7 kelvins. For 10 points, name this blackbody radiation often called the afterglow of the Big Bang.
ANSWER: cosmic microwave background radiation [or CMB or CMBR; accept Sunyaev–Zel’dovich effect or S–Z effect in the first sentence] &lt;GR, Other Science: Astronomy&gt;

607.
ID: 159171  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 12 | Number: 18
TOSSUP: Percy Grainger adapted a movement from a work of this type for his Blithe Bells; that work of this type features a soprano soloist accompanied by two recorders. An adaptation of a score [emphasize] into a work of this type by Prokofiev contains movements such as “The Field of the Dead” and was reworked from his film score for Alexander Nevsky. A work of this type contains a chorale based on a hymn by Philipp Nicolai and is entitled (*) Wachet auf (“VAH-khet OWFF”), or “Sleepers Awake.” A secular one of these pieces opens with the line “Be still, stop chattering!” and one of them nicknamed for hunting contains an aria played at many weddings titled “Sheep May Safely Graze.” For 10 points, J. S. Bach wrote over 200 of what type of choral works, whose examples include one titled for coffee?
ANSWER: cantatas [accept sacred cantatas or secular cantatas] &lt;AE, Classical Music&gt;

608.
ID: 159170  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 12 | Number: 17
TOSSUP: Marshall Sahlins critiqued this thinker in a work whose title refers to Abuse of this thinker’s field. This thinker introduced the notion of taxon cycles where the range of species expands and contracts. With his student Simberloff, this scientist used defaunated mangroves in the Florida Keys to test a model for isolated communities. This scientist alluded to the modern synthesis in the subtitle to a book that discusses complex societies of animals including elephants, (*) Sociobiology. This scientist glibly explained that Marx just “had the wrong species,” because socialism works in eusocial insects like ants, on which this biologist is an expert. For 10 points, name this biologist who wrote The Theory of Island Biogeography with Robert MacArthur.
ANSWER: E. O. Wilson [or Edward Osborne Wilson] &lt;GR, Biology&gt;

609.
ID: 158986  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 03 | Number: 13
TOSSUP: In an experiment, this psychologist found that subjects preferred to keep their hands in ice water for a longer period of time if the water warmed at the end, even though it resulted in more pain. That experiment led this psychologist to propose a peak-end rule for retrospective evaluation of experiences. In a 2011 book, this psychologist observed that the rule “what you see is all there is” can explain why individuals experience (*) framing effects in their judgment. That book examined the abilities and the limitations of two modes of thinking, the automatic System 1 and the conscious, reasoning System 2. For 10 points, name this psychologist and behavioral economist who wrote Thinking, Fast and Slow and developed prospect theory with Amos Tversky.
ANSWER: Daniel Kahneman [accept Barbara L. Frederickson in the first two sentences] &lt;WC, Social Science&gt;

610.
ID: 158987  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 03 | Number: 14
TOSSUP: The third pope of this name, who called two synods (“SIN-uds”) in Rome in 731 to oppose the Iconoclasm, was the last pope before Francis to be born outside of Europe. The ninth pope of this name created the Liber extra to codify canon law and established the Papal Inquisition. That pope with this name excommunicated Frederick II and denounced him as a “predecessor to the Antichrist.” Another pope with this name supposedly saw some slave boys in a market and said that they were “not (*) Angles, but angels.” That pope, who dispatched a mission to convert the Anglo-Saxons, had the epithet of “the Great” and is credited with instituting a namesake type of chant. For 10 points, a pope with what name introduced a namesake calendar reform to replace the Julian calendar?
ANSWER: Gregory [accept with any number or epithet, but in order they are III, IX, I or the Great, and XIII] &lt;AE, European History&gt;

611.
ID: 158990  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Religion | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 03 | Number: 17
TOSSUP: In this country, Aarón Joaquín González founded a non-trinitarian Protestant church called La Luz del Mundo, whose members gather yearly for the Santa Cena service. According to a religious tradition from this country, the bishop Juan de Zumárraga agreed to build a church on a hill after a saint brought him some flowers carried inside his tilma, or cloak, which unfolded to reveal a miraculous (*) image of the Virgin Mary. That saint from this country was a native convert to Christianity named Juan Diego. This country’s patron saint is the Virgin Mary, who appeared on Tepeyac Hill as Our Lady of Guadalupe. For 10 points, name this Latin American country whose celebration of All Saints’ Day coincides with its celebration of Day of the Dead.
ANSWER: Mexico &lt;WC, Religion&gt;

612.
ID: 158991  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 03 | Number: 18
TOSSUP: In the partial wave expansion for scattering, an incoming plane wave is decomposed into a sum of waves with different values for this quantity. Commutation relations for the operators that describe this quantity can be written with a Levi–Civita (“LAY-vee CHEE-vee-ta”) symbol. (*) Spherical harmonics are eigenfunctions of operators corresponding to this quantity, which are the generators of rotations. A Stern–Gerlach apparatus separates particles based on their projection of this quantity along the quantization axis, and it is proportional to magnetic moment. The j and l (“ell”) quantum numbers correspond to eigenvalues of the square of this quantity. For 10 points, name this quantity with “spin” and “orbital” types, which is conserved in the absence of external torque.
ANSWER: angular momentum [accept orbital angular momentum or spin angular momentum; prompt on spin by asking “what general physical quantity is spin a type of?”; do not accept or prompt on “momentum” or “linear momentum”] &lt;GR, Physics&gt;

613.
ID: 159172  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 12 | Number: 19
TOSSUP: This region was home to a group of female soldiers called the “Greenfinches,” who went on patrols unarmed and would search women and children. A group in this region carried out an attack on bar-goers watching a 1994 World Cup game against Italy and organized the Shankill Butchers street gang. That group, which used a red (*) hand as their symbol, was the UVF. Every July 12th, a society in this region carries out marches to commemorate the Battle of Aughrim; that society is the controversial Orange Order. The Omagh bombing was the deadliest attack during this region’s Troubles, a conflict that also saw 1972’s “Bloody Sunday.” For 10 points, name this constituent country of the United Kingdom where loyalist paramilitaries clashed with the IRA.
ANSWER: Northern Ireland [or Tuaisceart Éireann; or Norlin Airlan; accept Ulster; prompt on Ireland until “constituent” is read] &lt;AP, European History&gt;

614.
ID: 159168  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature European
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 12 | Number: 15
TOSSUP: In a poem about this war, a eunuch tells his mistress that she was suckled by a tigress after her mother, the Queen of Ethiopia, abandoned her because she was white. After returning from captivity on the Fortunate Isles, a soldier in this war is shown a shield depicting the deeds of his ancestors from the House of Este (“ESS-tay”) by a wiseman. This war is the setting of a poem whose second canto witnesses the lovers Sofronia and Olindo both confess to the theft of a statue of (*) Mary. The sorceress Armida kidnaps the knight Rinaldo in that poem set in this conflict, which depicts a battle between Tancredi and Clorinda. That epic about this war begins with the angel Gabriel visiting Godfrey of Bouillon (“boo-YON”). For 10 points, name this war depicted in Torquato Tasso’s epic Jerusalem Delivered.
ANSWER: First Crusade [prompt on Crusades] &lt;CK, European Literature&gt;

615.
ID: 159167  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History Other
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 12 | Number: 14
TOSSUP: In the classical era, a variety of this good called Coa vestis was produced on the Greek island of Kos. After Alfonso I granted a tax exemption, the city of Catanzaro became a major center of production for this good in Calabria. After sacking Thebes and Corinth, Roger II captured workers who produced this good and brought them to Sicily. (*) Brocade (“bro-KAID”) is a heavier, ornate form of this good that could be produced by unskilled workers following the invention of the programmable Jacquard (“zha-CAR”) loom. The production of this good in European began when Byzantine monks working for Justinian smuggled in mulberry shrubs and the eggs of a namesake “worm.” For 10 points, name this fabric that was traded along a namesake “road” across Asia that linked Europe to China.
ANSWER: silk [accept silkworms; accept Silk Road; prompt on textiles or fabric or cloth] &lt;AE, European History&gt;

616.
ID: 158996  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 04 | Number: 3
TOSSUP: This author tells the title woman, “I bid you find your thrall, though you, to me, do no dalliance” in his ballade “To Rosemounde.” This author bemoaned “I am so sorry now that you’ve been light!” in his final poem, titled “Complaint Unto His Purse.” At the end of one work, he admits that his works have “tended toward sin” in a poem known as his namesake “retraction.” In one poem, he wrote about a poet who (*) dreams that he encounters Octavian’s hunt and consoles a knight who lost a game of chess to Fortuna. This author of The Book of the Duchess wrote a work whose narrator meets a group at the Tabard Inn traveling to the tomb of Thomas à Becket. For 10 points, name this author who included stories from the Knight and the Wife of Bath in The Canterbury Tales.
ANSWER: Geoffrey Chaucer &lt;CK, World/Other Literature&gt;

617.
ID: 158998  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature European
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 04 | Number: 5
TOSSUP: A character in this novel becomes furious at the poster of Snoopy above his typewriter and attempts to get over his writer’s block by copying down the opening sentences of Crime and Punishment. One section of this novel follows a man who breaks into another person’s house to pick up a ringing telephone and discovers that one of his students has been kidnapped. Chapter 8 of this novel is made up of diary entries from the author of the novels (*) In a network of lines that enlace and In a network of lines that intersect, Silas Flannery. The main character of this novel goes on a journey to find the translator Ermes Marana after beginning to read a series of books but being unable to continue any of them after the first few pages. For 10 points, name this novel by Italo Calvino starring you, the reader.
ANSWER: If on a winter’s night a traveler [or Se una notte d’inverno un viaggiatore] &lt;JN, European Literature&gt;

618.
ID: 158999  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 04 | Number: 6
TOSSUP: During the negotiation of this treaty, a representative who was literally picked up off the street was asked whether he wanted red or white wine and replied, “Which is stronger?” While negotiating this treaty, Adolph Joffe (“YOFF-eh”) put forth six points, emphasizing that there would be no annexations and no indemnities. Another negotiator of this treaty stalled talks and advocated a policy of “no (*) war, no peace.” A negotiator of this treaty suggested merging some ceded territories into a United Baltic Duchy containing Latvia and Estonia. This treaty, which was superseded by the Treaty of Rapallo, was largely negotiated by Richard von Kühlmann and Leon Trotsky. For 10 points, name this peace treaty that ended hostilities between Germany and the Soviet Union in World War I.
ANSWER: Treaty of Brest-Litovsk &lt;WC, European History&gt;

619.
ID: 159169  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Religion | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 12 | Number: 16
TOSSUP: A 7th-century saint with this name wrote a book structured as 30 “steps” to spiritual perfection, titled The Ladder of Divine Ascent. A saint with this name developed the Paschal Homily (“PASS-kull HOM-uh-lee”) that is read in Orthodox churches on Easter, and wrote eight anti-Semitic homilies “Against the Jews.” That saint, who also developed a namesake “Divine Liturgy” used in Orthodox celebrations of the Eucharist, was given the epithet (*) “golden-mouthed,” or “Chrysostom” for his eloquence. The “disciple whom Jesus loved” is frequently thought to be an apostle and gospel author with this name. The Book of Revelation was written by an author with this name who resided on the island of Patmos. For 10 points, give this name of the prophet who baptized Jesus.
ANSWER: John [or Johannes or Ioannes; accept St. John Climacus, St. John Chrysostom, St. John the Evangelist, John of Patmos, and St. John the Baptist] &lt;WC, Religion&gt;

620.
ID: 159173  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 12 | Number: 20
TOSSUP: This character is the sequentially [emphasize] first namesake of a short story in which the protagonist reminisces about his white girlfriend while buying a Creamsicle at a 7-11. This character is the first named in the title of a book that includes a story in which two teenagers bond while travelling to pick up a parent’s ashes, titled “This is What it Means to Say Phoenix, Arizona”; that book was adapted for the film Smoke Signals. This character, whose (*) “fistfight in heaven” with his companion names a Sherman Alexie collection, had a theme drawn from the finale of the William Tell Overture. This character, who used the phrase “Hi-yo, away” to call his horse Silver, addressed his companion as “Ke-mo sah-bee.” For 10 points, name this fictional mask-wearing Western hero of radio shows who fought outlaws alongside Tonto.
ANSWER: the Lone Ranger [prompt on The Lone Ranger and Tonto Fistfight in Heaven] &lt;AP, Other&gt; Bonuses

621.
ID: 159164  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 12 | Number: 11
TOSSUP: In a book entitled After Nature, Marilyn Strathern argued that this concept was changed by particular technologies in the late 20th century. This concept is defined in terms of membership in a corporate body in “sociétés à maison,” or “house societies.” In Latin America, the compadrazgo is an example of its fictive form. In a book entitled for the American form of this concept, David Schneider criticized accounts of this concept that rely on biological notions such as (*) affinity and consanguinity. Structuralist anthropologists use the alliance theory to analyze this concept, arguing that exchange between groups is necessary because of the incest taboo, whereas functionalists analyze this concept in terms of biological descent. For 10 points, Claude Lévi-Strauss wrote a book describing the Elementary Structures of what anthropological term for familial relationships?
ANSWER: kinship [accept Elementary Structures of Kinship; accept American Kinship; accept Parenté after “Levi-Strauss” is read; prompt on family or families] &lt;GR, Social Science&gt;

622.
ID: 159003  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Mythology | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 04 | Number: 10
TOSSUP: A mortally-wounded one of these creatures wandered about creating place names before his heart burst. A pair of feuding pig-herders named Friuch (“FREE-ukh”) and Rucht (“rukht”) were reincarnated as worms and various other creatures before eventually becoming these animals. In a poem that begins with the “pillow talk” scene, one of these animals is almost exchanged for one character’s “friendly thighs.” That (*) woman attempts to acquire one of these animals in order to make her wealth equal to that of her husband, Ailill (“EYE-lill”), but is turned down when her messenger offends Dáire (“DYE-ruh”). Macha’s curse leaves Ulster helpless when the army of Connacht launches an invasion to find Donn Cúailnge (“KOOL-nyuh”), who is one of these animals. For 10 points, what sort of animal is targeted by a raid on Cooley in an Irish epic?
ANSWER: bulls [or cattle or cows] &lt;JS, Mythology&gt;

623.
ID: 159163  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 12 | Number: 10
TOSSUP: A Pulitzer-winning 2009 biography of this person by T. J. Styles credits this person with creating an “unseen architecture which later generations of Americans would take for granted.” During a grand tour of Europe, Joseph L. White and Charles Morgan attempted to seize control of a company owned by this person. During the California Gold Rush, this person created the Accessory (*) Transit Company to bring passengers from the East Coast to San Francisco via Nicaragua. This entrepreneur faced off against Daniel Drew during the Erie War, a struggle for control over the Erie Railroad. For 10 points, name this American railroad tycoon nicknamed “The Commodore” who gave a million-dollar endowment to his namesake university in Nashville, Tennessee.
ANSWER: Cornelius Vanderbilt &lt;AE, American History&gt;

624.
ID: 159165  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 12 | Number: 12
TOSSUP: This artist painted three sisters in white dresses and gray wigs sitting around a table in a work commissioned by their mother in the hope of attracting suitors. This artist’s depiction of the infant Samuel praying is one of his best known depictions of childhood along with his image of a girl in a yellow dress that lends its title to Edith Wharton novel The Age of Innocence. This artist painted a life-sized double portrait in which dead game piles up behind two (*) aristocrats hunting with bow and arrow. This artist depicted the allegorical figures of Pity and Terror behind a throne in a painting that models Melpomene on a Shakespearean actress. For 10 points, name this first president of the Royal Academy of Arts, who painted Sarah Siddons as the Tragic Muse.
ANSWER: Joshua Reynolds &lt;JH, Painting &amp; Sculpture&gt;

625.
ID: 159009  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 04 | Number: 16
TOSSUP: The velocity correlation tensor used to describe this phenomenon is only a function of distance, and its trace is a normalized two-point correlation function that determines the scale of this phenomenon’s largest features. The mean square of the strain-rate tensor defines a characteristic time for this phenomenon, which is also related to the rate of dissipation. A mean field theory of this phenomenon defines universal (*) scales using viscosity and dissipation parameters and was developed by Kolmogorov (“kull-ma-GOR-off”). This phenomenon is characterized by non-zero vorticity and occurs in mixing layers. This type of flow is dominated by inertial forces and includes vortices and eddies. For 10 points, name this type of chaotic flow characterized by a high Reynolds number and contrasted with laminar flow.
ANSWER: turbulence [or turbulent flow; prompt on (fluid) flow by asking “what kind of flow?”] &lt;GR, Physics&gt;

626.
ID: 159010  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 04 | Number: 17
TOSSUP: In one work, this thinker argued that politicians must balance their “ethic of moral conviction” with their “ethic of responsibility.” He argued that social stratification is a function of three namesake factors in his paper “Class, Status, Parties.” This thinker ended a lecture by quoting Shakespeare’s Sonnet 102 and grimly predicting that “no summer’s bloom lies ahead of us.” He identified “traditional,” (*) “charismatic,” and “legal” sources of authority in that essay, which defines the state as an entity with a “monopoly on the legitimate use of force.” Talcott Parsons produced a notoriously poor translation of his best-known work, which argues that Calvinism helped shape market economies. For 10 points, name this German sociologist who wrote “Politics as a Vocation” and The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism.
ANSWER: Max Weber &lt;CK, Social Science&gt;

627.
ID: 159031  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 05 | Number: 18
TOSSUP: He’s not Chardin (“shar-DAN”) or Millais (“mill-AY”), but this artist’s depiction of a boy blowing soap bubbles was inspired by the treatment of that subject by his teacher, the academic painter Thomas Couture (“toh-MAH koo-TOOR”). Like Degas, this painter depicted horse racing, using an unusual frontal perspective in The Races at Longchamp (“long-SHAWM”). In one of this artist’s canvases, the legs of a trapeze walker and an opulent chandelier can be seen in a large (*) mirror behind a bar with a bowl of oranges and bottles of champagne. Another of his paintings shocked Parisian audiences despite its seated figures replicating the pose of three river gods in Raphael’s Judgment of Paris. This painter of A Bar at the Folies-Bergère (“foh-LEE-bair-ZHAIR”) depicted two contemporarily dressed men with naked woman in that work, which was displayed at the Salon des Refusés (“sa-LAWN day ruh-fyoo-ZAY”). For 10 points, name this French painter of The Luncheon on the Grass.
ANSWER: Edouard Manet &lt;GR, Painting &amp; Sculpture&gt;

628.
ID: 159013  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 04 | Number: 20
TOSSUP: This ruler’s life was chronicled in a “Rare and Excellent History” written by his adviser Ibn Shaddad. This ruler faced a rebellion in Aswan led by Kanz al-Dawla, which was put down by his brother Turanshah. After this ruler died, his lands were split between al-Aziz Uthman and al-Afdal, and then reunited by his brother al-Adil. This ruler signed a three-year truce following his defeat at the Battle of (*) Jaffa. This ruler killed Reginald of Châtillon (“sha-tee-YON”) for breaking a truce after defeating Guy of Lusignan’s (“ghee of LOO-zin-yon’s”) armies in the Battle of the Horns of Hattin. Following that battle, this ruler took Jerusalem in 1187, prompting the Third Crusade. For 10 points, name this Ayyubid sultan, well-regarded by Europeans for his chivalry, who clashed with Richard the Lionheart.
ANSWER: Saladin [or An-Nasir Salah ad-Din Yusuf ibn Ayyub] &lt;WC, World History&gt; Bonuses

629.
ID: 159110  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 09 | Number: 17
TOSSUP: In a 1998 paper partly titled after this concept, John Lomas found that among six interventions against heart disease, approaches that emphasized this concept proved more effective. Harvard’s Saguaro Seminar is an initiative to improve the measurement and analysis of this concept. A book about this concept contrasts the (*) “bridging” type of this concept with the “bonding” type, based on whether or not they reinforce exclusive identities. Robert D. Putnam’s book Bowling Alone investigates the decline of this concept in the United States, exemplified by declining participation in groups like service clubs, PTAs, and bowling leagues. For 10 points, name this concept referring to ties between individuals that help them trust one another and work together.
ANSWER: social capital [accept social networks; accept social participation, social engagement, and civil engagement until “participation” is read, then prompt afterwards; accept social ties until “ties” is read, then prompt afterwards; prompt on community or communities; prompt on friendship; prompt on relationships; prompt on social groups] &lt;WC, Social Science&gt;

630.
ID: 159166  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Other
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 12 | Number: 13
TOSSUP: The PIRATA buoy (“BOO-ee”) array is used to collect data about this body of water. A major current in this body of water is affected by an anomalous “cold blob.” Strengthening of that “blob” may reduce the sinking of this body’s namesake deep water mass, which is characterized by high temperature and oxygen content. Leakage of the Agulhas (“uh-GULL-us”) current [emphasize] into this body of water provides the main source of salt and heat for its namesake meridional overturning circulation. The Iapetus (*) Ocean was the “predecessor” of this most saline ocean. In 1992, overfishing led to a 99-percent drop in biomass of a cod species native to this ocean, whose oscillation has a pressure center at the Azores High. For 10 points, the Gulf Stream flows along the west of what second-largest ocean?
ANSWER: Atlantic Ocean [accept Atlantic meridional overturning circulation; accept North Atlantic Deep Water; accept Atlantic cod; prompt on Sargasso Sea by asking “which is in what ocean?”] &lt;AP, Other Science: Earth Science&gt;

631.
ID: 159174  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 13 (Finals 1) | Number: 1
TOSSUP: The speaker of a poem by this author imagines being given things like “The Mountains” and “The Motions of the Dipping Birds” to “look at when I liked.” A 2018 film by Madeleine Olnek is titled for a poem by this author that ends with the controversially erotic line “might I but moor tonight in thee!” and exclaims “Done with the Compass – / Done with the Chart!” This author also wrote a poem that states “They might as wise have lodged a (*) Bird / For Treason – in the Pound” in recalling how “They shut me up in Prose.” This poet of “Wild Nights! Wild Nights!” described signing away “What portion of me be / Assignable” before a moment when “the King / Be witnessed – In the Room.” For 10 points, the line “The Stillness in the Room” appears in the poem “I heard a Fly buzz – when I died” by what reclusive New England poet?
ANSWER: Emily Dickinson &lt;JH, American Literature&gt;

632.
ID: 159190  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Religion | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 13 (Finals 1) | Number: 17
TOSSUP: After King Dagnus sent the beautiful sisters Nicaea and Aquilina to seduce this saint, he converted the sisters instead. He’s not St. Sebastian, but when forty knights fired arrows at this saint, the arrows hovered in the air around him, and an arrow flew back into the eye of King Dagnus. This saint served a cruel knight who claimed to be the devil while trying to fulfill his desire to seek and serve the (*) greatest prince in the world. Byzantine artists misunderstood his “Canaanite” origin to mean “canine,” so they depicted this saint as dog-headed. This saint felt the weight of the world on his shoulder and almost drowned as he carried a child across a river. For 10 points, name this patron saint of travelers who legendarily carried the Christ Child, hence his Greek name, “Christ-Bearer.”
ANSWER: St. Christopher [or Reprobus] &lt;WC, Mythology&gt;

633.
ID: 159218  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature World
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 15 (Tiebreakers) | Number: 5
TOSSUP: This poem describes threshed rushes that are filled with the “white dust of ibises whose cries / have wheeled since civilization’s dawn.” This poem imagines a worm crying “Waste no compassion on these separate dead!” in its first stanza, which opens by describing “a wind ruffling a tawny pelt.” After noting how “The gorilla wrestles with the superman,” this poem’s narrator reflects on his (*) mixed-race heritage by stating that he is “poisoned with the blood of both.” This poem’s narrator, who has “cursed the drunken officer of British rule,” rues the deaths of Kikuyu during the Mau Mau Uprising by asking, “How can I face such slaughter and be cool?” For 10 points, the question “How can I turn from [the title continent] and live?” concludes what Derek Walcott poem?
ANSWER: “A Far Cry From Africa” &lt;AP, British Literature&gt;

634.
ID: 154941  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 22 - WUSTL | Number: 15
TOSSUP: A series of interviews asking people in this role about how they rationalized their decisions were conducted by Robert Jackall, who used his findings the 1988 book Moral Mazes, a book subtitled for these people’s “world.” Geert Hofstede worked in this role before becoming an expert in “international” practice and devising the “theory of cultural dimensions.” Alfred Chandler argued that people in this role constituted “the most powerful institution in the American economy,” and documented a “revolution” led by them, in his book The Visible Hand. According to W. Edwards Deming, people in this role should adhere to the “Shewhart cycle” of “plan-do-study-act,” avoid the “seven deadly diseases,” and follow “14 points.” The theory that people in this role should work “by objectives” is central to a 1954 book on the “practice” of filling this role by Peter Drucker. For 10 points, name this corporate role that students at a school named for Alfred P. Sloan are training to fill.
ANSWER: corporate managers [accept answers containing forms of the word manager such as managers of companies or managerial class or company management or middle managers; accept corporate executives or corporate administrators or other answers indicating the people who manage or administer a business]

635.
ID: 154940  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Other
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 22 - WUSTL | Number: 14
TOSSUP: Following this event, the mass-independent fractionation of sulfur isotopes was almost entirely replaced by mass-dependent fractionation. This event is attributed to cooling of the mantle and subsequent decrease in the availability of nickel-rich rock in the “nickel famine” theory. A spike in chromium rock deposits dating to this event suggests that a large increase in global levels of sulfuric acid occurred alongside it. This event likely caused the Huronian glaciation, which led to the first of many snowball Earths, as a result of the decrease in atmospheric methane. The first mass extinction is believed to have occurred during this event, as methanogenic archaea would have likely found the changing environment toxic. For 10 points, name this geological event that occurred approximately 2.45 billion years ago, which saw a dramatic increase in the Earth’s atmosphere of a gas consumed in aerobic respiration.
ANSWER: Great Oxygenation Event [or Great Oxidation Event; or GOE; or Oxygen Catastrophe; or Oxygen Holocaust; or Oxygen Revolution; prompt on answers describing “dramatic increase in atmospheric oxygen” or similar]

636.
ID: 154942  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature World
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 22 - WUSTL | Number: 16
TOSSUP: In a play, an old couple sweeping under one of these objects explains how it is coupled with another one of these objects located across the bay, before revealing that they are the spirits of those two objects. One of these objects serves as a memorial to two salt-gathering sisters who loved Yukihira in a play punningly titled for wind and these objects, which was written by Kanami and revised by Zeami Motokiyo. In a play titled for one of these objects, a man nicknamed “Hard Luck” stabs a rapey tobacco merchant in the head to protect a courtesan whose contract he had vowed to buy out in order to unite her with her love Yojibei. Donald Keene made that play titled for one of these objects one of the four “major plays” of its author by collecting it with The Battles of Coxinga (koh-sheen-gah) and the love suicide plays. Chikamatsu wrote about an “uprooted” one of, for 10 points, what type of tree ubiquitous in Japanese literature?
ANSWER: pines [or pine trees; or matsu; accept Wind in the Pines or Matsuzake or The Uprooted Pine or Nebiki no Kadomatsu; prompt on “coniferous trees” or “evergreens” or “trees” or “plants” or other less specific answers]

637.
ID: 154938  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: History | Subcategory: History Classical
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 22 - WUSTL | Number: 12
TOSSUP: The only physical relic of this battle is a cauldron thought to have been used for the burial of Laudaricus (lao-DAR-ih-kuss). A historical account stated that soldiers in this battle “were forced to drink what was the blood they had poured out from their own wounds” from a creek whose “water mingled with gore.” Prior to this clash, a king named Sangiban was placed at the center of the battle formation so he could not treacherously throw open a city’s gates. J. B. Bury argued that it should be called the “Battle of Troyes,” and downplayed its importance, arguing that the later Battle of Nedao was more pivotal. The attacking army’s failure to take Aurelianum turned the tide in this battle documented by the historian Jordanes. A year later, the losers of this battle invaded Italy to press a marriage claim but were halted at the River Po. For 10 points, name this AD 451 battle in which a coalition of Romans and Goths under Flavius Aetius and Theodoric I defeated Attila’s Huns.
ANSWER: Battle of the Catalaunian Plains or the Battle of Chalons [or Battle of the Campus Mauriacus, or Battle of Maurica or Battle of the Catalun or Catalaunian Fields]

638.
ID: 154937  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 22 - WUSTL | Number: 11
TOSSUP: This campaign was first proposed at a 1958 conference in Minneapolis by a man who cited the success, over 50 years earlier, of C. K. Millard’s “Leicester system.” One of the last notable incidents before this campaign’s success was certified was an accident at the University of Birmingham that caused the death of the photographer Janet Parker and led to the suicide of Henry Bedson. The ultimate success of this campaign, which was certified in 1980, gives rise to the most notable fact about the Bangladeshi woman Rahima Banu and the Somali man Ali Maow Maalin (MAH-oh mah-LEEN). After Viktor Zhdanov proposed this campaign, Donald Henderson presided over its implementation, which was aided by a “ring” strategy and the invention of the bifurcated needle. Following the success of this campaign, only the Vector Institute and the CDC are known to have samples of a certain infectious agent. For 10 points, name this public health campaign accomplished in part with a vaccine developed by Edward Jenner.
ANSWER: eradicating smallpox [accept smallpox virus or Variola virus or Variola major or Variola minor in place of “smallpox”; accept any synonym for eradicate in place of “eradicating”; accept any other answer indicating the campaign to eliminate smallpox from the world]

639.
ID: 154939  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 22 - WUSTL | Number: 13
TOSSUP: The narrator of a novel by this author interjects in all-caps to tell the protagonist “GO STEADY” in a chapter in which she fusses over whether to use pigeon-blood paper for a note. In a letter discovered in 2007, this author asked Dr. Kinnicutt for help writing a scene in which the protagonist imagines Nettie Struther’s child lying on her arm. In a novel by this author, a visitor who wants to buy tapestries from the estate of the Chelle family turns out to be the protagonist’s first husband, whom she then remarries after divorcing Raymond. This author of a novel about a woman who precipitates Ralph Moffat’s suicide by telling him about her marriage to Elmer Moffatt in the town of Apex also wrote a novel in which Lawrence Selden arrives too late to propose to a woman who has been “sleeping badly for a long time” and had just overdosed on chloral. For 10 points, name this author whose New York-set novels include one about Undine Spragg, Custom of the Country, and one about Lily Bart, House of Mirth.
ANSWER: Edith Wharton [accept Edith Newbold Jones]

640.
ID: 154943  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 22 - WUSTL | Number: 17
TOSSUP: In one work, this author criticizes Sylvia Plath’s poem “Daddy” for appropriating “the unspeakable annals of ‘Dachau, Auschwitz, Belsen.’” This author describes how “Romanticism turns almost immediately into Decadence” in a work that argues that “the mother” inspires lifelong sexual anxiety in men. The Marquis de Sade is described as a satirist of Rousseau in that book by this writer that seeks to “demonstrate the unity and continuity of western culture.” One of this author’s works both reviews and is titled for John Donne’s Holy Sonnet XIV. Another work by this author describes Gracie Allen and the Oracle at Delphi as examples of the “pythoness.” This author collected 43 of her favorite poems in the collection Break, Blow, Burn. This author’s best-known book replaces the Dionysian with the Chthonic in the Apollonian/Dionysian distinction and argues that “pornography in great art . . . [has] been ignored by most academic critics.” For 10 points, name this heterodox feminist thinker who wrote Sexual Personae.
ANSWER: Camille Paglia [or Camille Anna Paglia]

641.
ID: 154934  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 22 - WUSTL | Number: 8
TOSSUP: This artist earned his most powerful admirer after painting a work showing the “queens of Persia at the feet of Alexander,” his The Tent of Darius. A 2013 fire damaged the Hôtel Lambert, which contains this painter’s Gallery of Hercules, executed while he was also painting works in Vaux-le-Vicomte, the home of a wealthy superintendent of finances. With the financial backing of another political ally, this artist reshaped the workshop previously run by Charles de Comans and Raphaël de la Planche into a tapestry manufactory called the Gobelins (goh-beh-lanz). This painter, who was heavily influenced by Nicolas Poussin, took control of two of France’s major art academies with the help of Jean-Baptiste Colbert. This man painted The King Governs Alone as the central ceiling panel for the Hall of Mirrors in his role as the main decorator of the Palace of Versailles. For 10 points, what 17th-century French “first painter to the king” originated the “Louis XIV (“the 14th”) style”?
ANSWER: Charles Le Brun

642.
ID: 154933  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 22 - WUSTL | Number: 7
TOSSUP: One leader of this regime gave a speech in which he smashed three bottles of blood on the ground in a town square to intimidate opponents. The ruling body of this regime began with three representatives from each of its 40 nominating units, and the creation of a body called the Provisional Office for Mass Organization Affairs to promote education. One of its early leaders issued a slogan promising “for every revolutionary killed, a thousand counter-revolutionaries executed,” which targeted several members of the movement known popularly as MEISON (MAY-sahn). This regime launched a resettlement program known as villagization, possibly partly funded by Western aid. The song “Do they know it’s Christmas?” was written in response to a famine under this regime, and led to the Live Aid concert. For 10 points, name this military junta led by Mengistu Haile Mariam (meng-GIS-too HYE-lee MAR-ee-um) that ruled Ethiopia after overthrowing Haile Selassie.
ANSWER: Derg [or Common Derg, or Dergue, or Coordinating Committee of the Armed Forces, Police and Territorial Army]

643.
ID: 154935  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature European
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 22 - WUSTL | Number: 9
TOSSUP: A work in this genre that notes that apes are not transformed by the “mirror” of a book appears in the fourth volume of a set of notebooks labeled ‘A’ through ‘L’. The electrical-discharge figures discovered by their author are depicted on the cover of the NYRB Classics edition of The Waste-Books, a collection of pieces of this type by Georg Christoph Lichtenberg. A book of annotated pieces of this genre expanded from about 800 entries to over 4,000 in editions published over the last 40 years of the life of its editor, Erasmus. François Rabelais published an edition of works of this type by Hippocrates, one of which draws a contrast between “short” life and “long” art. The idea that self-love is the cause of all actions is the overriding theme of a collection of these pieces that a nobleman published anonymous in 1665. François de La Rochefoucauld is best known for his collection of these statements. For 10 points, Horace’s “carpe diem” is an example of what statements of pithy observation or advice?
ANSWER: aphorisms [or maxims; accept adages or proverbs; prompt on “sayings” or similar answers indicating “pithy statements”]

644.
ID: 154931  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 22 - WUSTL | Number: 5
TOSSUP: A miner named Joel Sullivan calls a woman of this profession “a dream / my daughter won’t give up” in a poem whose last section features the husband of that woman saying that “afterwards she was everywhere.” Gabrielle Calvocoressi (kahl-voh-koh-RESS-ee) wrote a poem in which ten people describe the last time they saw a person with this job. James Tate imagined a man in this profession telling him that “misfortune / placed these worlds in us” in a poem about his father titled for a “lost” one of these people. In another poem, one of them recalls how he “balanced all, brought all to mind” and states “my country is Kiltartan Cross, my countrymen Kiltartan’s poor” after admitting that “those that I fight I do not hate, those that I guard I do not love.” This is the profession of a man who, driven by a “lonely impulse of delight,” meets his fate “somewhere among the clouds above.” For 10 points, name this profession of an Irishman who “foresees his death” in a W. B. Yeats poem.
ANSWER: aviator(s) [accept synonyms such as aviatrix(es) or pilot(s) or airman or airmen; accept “The Lost Pilot” or “An Irish Airman Foresees His Death”]

645.
ID: 154932  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 22 - WUSTL | Number: 6
TOSSUP: This scientist was inspired by the Austro-Hungarian Polar Expedition to formulate a simplified expression for the thickness of sea ice proportional to the square root of time. This scientist invented the diathermometer to perform the first accurate measurements of the thermal conductivity of gases. A different device named for this scientist consists of a tube with a bath of volatile liquid at the bottom, which is allowed to evaporate and be carried away by flowing gas in order to determine diffusion coefficients. He names a class of boundary value problems in which the boundary between phases is variable. With Maxwell, he co-names a theory of diffusion in multicomponent systems. A constant sometimes named exclusively for this man has a value of “5.67 times 10 to the eighth watts per meter squared per Kelvin to the fourth,” and that constant appears in an equation that is derived by integrating the Planck distribution over all wavelengths. For 10 points, what Austrian physicist of Slovenian descent co-names the equation for the total radiation of a blackbody with his student, Ludwig Boltzmann?
ANSWER: Josef (yo-sef) Stefan [accept Stefan problems or Maxwell-Stefan diffusion or Stefan’s constant; accept Stefan-Boltzmann equation or Stefan-Boltzmann constant after “Boltzmann”; prompt on answers mentioning “Stefan-Boltzmann” before “Boltzmann”]

646.
ID: 154936  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Philosophy | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 22 - WUSTL | Number: 10
TOSSUP: It’s not due to Kripke, but this argument is criticized for relying on a “semantic premise” that turns a conceptual fact into a metaphysical problem in Brian Loar’s “Phenomenal States.” A paper responding to this argument illustrates “ways of missing the point” using various explanations of “tasting Vegemite” and “driving a steam locomotive fast on a cold, stormy night.” The main lines of response to this argument include the “ability hypothesis” introduced in that David Lewis paper and the “acquaintance hypothesis.” The first part of this argument imagines a man named Fred who can differentiate two types of ripe tomatoes. This argument, which holds that physicalism is false because someone who knew everything physical about a property would learn something new by being exposed to it, appears in its originator’s essay “Epiphenomenal Qualia.” For 10 points, identify this argument by Frank Jackson that imagines a “color scientist” confined to a black-and-white room.
ANSWER: knowledge argument [or Mary’s room; or Mary the super-scientist]

647.
ID: 154944  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 22 - WUSTL | Number: 18
TOSSUP: This leader’s tenure saw the passage of a Pension Reform Law that guaranteed all retirees a pension paying at least 50% of their pre-retirement gross earnings. This politician abolished fees for higher education and created a rent control program called “comparable rents” as part of his Rent Subsidies Act. This leader issued a speech containing his slogan “let’s dare more democracy” upon taking office. Political extremists were banned from government office under this man’s Anti-Radical Decree. This man’s namesake report established 30 degrees north as the line dividing the wealthy “global north” from the impoverished “global south.” This politician ended a policy known as the Hallstein Doctrine with his signing of the Basic Treaty of 1972, which established the Oder-Neisse (OH-der-NYE-suh) line as his country’s eastern border. For 10 points, name this West German chancellor who launched the policy of Ostpolitik (OHST-poh-lee-teek).
ANSWER: Willy Brandt [or Herbert Ernst Karl Frahm]

648.
ID: 154927  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 22 - WUSTL | Number: 1
TOSSUP: Description acceptable. Legal historian N. E. H. Hull wrote a book-length study of this case, which analyzes a pamphlet later published by government attorney Richard Crowley on his arguments in this case. In the wake of this case, Senator Matthew Carpenter issued a resolution, praising the efforts of attorney Henry R. Selden, and calling for the impeachment of Judge Ward Hunt because he ordered the jury to issue a directed verdict and refused to poll them. The losing side in this case used the “new departure” theory, an expansive view of the Privileges and Immunities Clause. After this case was moved to the Canandaigua (“cannon”-DAY-gwah) Courthouse to avoid jury prejudice, Millard Fillmore was a daily spectator. The argument used in this case was rejected two years later by the Supreme Court in Minor v. Happersett. This case resulted in a 100-dollar fine being levied against the convicted that was never paid. For 10 points, name this 1873 criminal proceeding concerning a certain woman who tried to vote in Rochester, New York.
ANSWER: trial of Susan B. Anthony [or United States v. Anthony; accept any answer mentioning Susan Brownell Anthony and the idea of a trial or prosecution or similar (for attempting to vote)]

649.
ID: 154926  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 21 - Oklahoma + Michigan B | Number: 20
TOSSUP: The narrator recalls spending all night with this author trying to think of a word for “lessness” in an essay by his friend E. M. Cioran, a Romanian writer whose philosophy is often analogized to this author’s. This author argued that “art is the apotheosis of solitude” in his first published work, a Schopenhauer-drenched monograph nominally about Marcel Proust. This author used periods to indicate centuries of separation between authors who influenced Joyce’s Finnegans Wake in the title of his essay “Dante . . . Bruno . Vico . . Joyce.” Michel Foucault’s “What is an Author?” takes the question “what matter who’s speaking?” from this author’s Texts for Nothing. This author’s Worstward Ho contains the advice to “try again; fail again; fail better.” This author eschewed his native tongue to write in a language in which “it is easier to write without style,” which he used for a novel that ends “you must go on; I can’t go on; I’ll go on.” The Unnamable is by, for 10 points, what author who used French to write Molloy?
ANSWER: Samuel Beckett [or Samuel Barclay Beckett] ACF Nationals 2018 Editors: Jordan Brownstein, Andrew Hart, Stephen Liu, Aaron Rosenberg, Andrew Wang, Ryan Westbrook Packet by Oklahoma (Maia Karpovich, Finn Bender, Caleb Kendrick, Tracey Hickman) and Michigan B (Colton Graham, Daniel Guo, Rudra Ranganathan, Kazuma Shimanaka, Conor Thompson) Bonuses

650.
ID: 154928  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 22 - WUSTL | Number: 2
TOSSUP: A modification of this technique contains a surfactant such as SDS concentrated above the CMC to produce a micellar pseudo-stationary phase. Transient ITP is commonly used as a preconcentration step in this technique. Bubble cells or z-cells may be implemented to increase path length in this technique, which can use field-amplified sample stacking to improve peak sharpness. Vessels for this technique are often coating with polyimide, a portion of which must be burnt off to produce a window. This technique is often run with arrays of 16 or 96 units simultaneously. Unlike a rounded laminar-flow profile, this technique results in a flat-plug flow profile characteristic of electroosmosis. Setups for this technique link a sample and destination vial with the namesake vessels, separating analytes based on ionic mobility. For 10 points, name this technique in which a microfluidic channel or a tube with an extremely small diameter transports an analyte in an electrolyte solution under the influence of a voltage.
ANSWER: capillary electrophoresis [accept capillary zone electrophoresis or CZE; prompt on “electrophoresis” or “gel electrophoresis”]

651.
ID: 154924  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 21 - Oklahoma + Michigan B | Number: 18
TOSSUP: A 2017 study by Cellini, Darolia, and Turner found that regulatory penalties applied to these institutions do relatively little harm to the consumers served by them. A book about these institutions argues that they appealed to a Christian man named Jason, who adopted a Kenyan child, by tapping into a “gospel” identified by W. Norton Grubb and Marvin Lazerson. In 2016, Barack Obama proposed amending the “90-10 rule” regulating these institutions to prevent them from marketing aggressively to veterans. The Obama Administration withdrew recognition for ACICS after the collapse of a network of these institutions called “Corinthian.” In a 2009 report, customers of these institutions represented 44% of defaulters on student loans. For 10 points, name these institutions studied in Tressie McMillan Cottom’s Lower Ed, such as University of Phoenix and Trump University, which are run as private businesses.
ANSWER: for-profit colleges [or for-profit educational institutions; or for-profit universities; accept any answer mentioning college or university or higher educational institution and the idea of making a profit; prompt on “online colleges” or similar answers; prompt on “colleges” or “universities” or “university”; prompt on “diploma mills”]

652.
ID: 154923  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 21 - Oklahoma + Michigan B | Number: 17
TOSSUP: This emperor produced Sixteen Maxims summarizing the core tenets of Confucianism in his “Sacred Edict.” In the final years of his reign, he had to arrest his eldest son, Prince Yinreng, who was a notorious pedophile. At the Battle of Jao Modo, he personally defeated the Dzungars (zun-gars) under Galdan Khan. This emperor often traveled in disguise as a commoner while touring southern China. During the regency of Oboi, he ordered the evacuation of Guangdong in the Great Clearance as part of his campaign against Koxinga (koh-SHIN-gah). His reign witnessed an uprising led by Wu Sangui (sahn-gway) known as the Revolt of the Three Feudatories. Wan Sitong edited most of the Míng Shǐ during the reign of this emperor, who sponsored a massive namesake dictionary. For 10 points, name this predecessor of the Yongzheng (yong-jeng) Emperor, who was the longest-reigning member of the Qing dynasty.
ANSWER: Kangxi (KAHNG-shee) Emperor [or Kangxi Huangdi; or Qing Xuanye]

653.
ID: 154925  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 21 - Oklahoma + Michigan B | Number: 19
TOSSUP: SYNE1 (“sign-one”) and SYNE2 (“sign-two”) code for actin-binding proteins found in this structure, which is bounded by the LINC complex. This structure is the location of a protein that interacts with Torsin A and is known as LAP1. One protein complex found on this structure is formed of proteins lined with FG repeats that interact with Kaps. Mutations in proteins that associate with this structure cause Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy. This structure is lined with octagonally symmetric structures formed of nups; those complexes contain a basket-shaped structure facing this structure’s lumen. Maturation-promoting factor promotes the dissolution of this structure, whose interior is lined with type V intermediate filaments. The Ran cycle provides the GTP required for importin and exportin to transport proteins through this structure. For 10 points name this structure that surrounds the lamina and the genetic information of the cell.
ANSWER: nuclear envelope [accept nuclear membrane; accept nuclear lamina; prompt on just the nucleus]

654.
ID: 154929  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 22 - WUSTL | Number: 3
TOSSUP: This composer conducted Julius Eastman and the Fires of London on one of his own pieces in a 1970 recording for Unicorn. In an orchestral piece by this composer, the concertmaster’s solo is “interrupted” multiple times by wayward brass, representing a drunken party where the first fiddle can barely hold the band together. That piece by this composer ends with a bagpiper dressed in full Scottish regalia entering from offstage. This composer founded the St. Magnus Festival in his adopted home in collaboration with local poet George Mackay (muh-KYE) Brown, whose work formed the basis for his chamber opera The Martyrdom of St. Magnus. This composer of An Orkney Wedding, with Sunrise also composed a melodrama for a baritone with an extended range of five octaves, which requires the musicians to play in giant bird cages, like George III’s pet bullfinches. For 10 points, name this British composer of Eight Songs for a Mad King, who passed away in 2016.
ANSWER: Peter Maxwell Davies

655.
ID: 154920  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Religion | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 21 - Oklahoma + Michigan B | Number: 14
TOSSUP: The original plan for a holy building in this city called for buttresses to contain a series of “Saturnstones” that sat a level up from “Sunstones.” As a result of a scandal involving a religious building in this city, James E. Talmage convinced religious leaders to allow him to publish a book of photographs. That scandal arose when a religious building in this city was entered under false pretenses by Max Florence, who subsequently attempted to blackmail religious leaders with the photographs he took. Stained glass windows depicting the First Vision adorn a room in this city that, in a reference to the Temple in Jerusalem, is called the Holy of Holies. The site of the holiest building in this city was chosen with the aid of a divining rod wielded by Oliver Cowdery. For 10 points, name this city whose Temple Square contains an ovular domed tabernacle and the temple that serves as the spiritual center of the Mormon faith.
ANSWER: Salt Lake City [accept Salt Lake Temple or Salt Lake Tabernacle]

656.
ID: 154921  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 21 - Oklahoma + Michigan B | Number: 15
TOSSUP: During a congressional inquiry into this group, Roxy Stinson testified that she was coaxed into a hotel room by the attorney A. L. Fink. At another point in those proceedings, a member of this group quipped that, “if my straw reaches across the room, I’ll end up drinking your milkshake.” After one member of this group was found dead next to a pistol, his apparent suicide was challenged by Alabama senator James Heflin, who was known as “Cotton Tom.” Senator Burton Wheeler presented the testimony of Gaston Means against this group, which included Jess Smith and the first director of the Veterans’ Bureau, the Scottish-born Charles R. Forbes. Its members reportedly met at the Little Green House on K Street. Attorney General Harry Daugherty and Albert Fall were members of, for 10 points, what group of corrupt politicians that dominated the presidency of Warren G. Harding?
ANSWER: Ohio Gang [prompt on answers mentioning “Warren Harding’s cabinet or advisors or similar” prompt on answers mentioning “Teapot Dome scandal”]

657.
ID: 154930  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Mythology | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 22 - WUSTL | Number: 4
TOSSUP: Sacrifices of cows and oxen are prohibited during celebrations of this figure’s birthday on lunar April 26th, which are often accompanied with incense and fireworks. One account of this figure’s birth states that his mother, Andeng (ahn-dung), lay with a dragon, which is why he is sometimes shown with the head of a dragon but the face of a man. This figure made an accidental discovery when a bush caught on fire and the wind blew leaves and twigs into a tripod cauldron. This figured died from consuming a poisonous yellow weed and failing to take a tea antidote in time. This mythical figure is the traditional author of The Classic of Herbal Medicine, which was likely compiled in the 2nd century AD. This figure’s common name means “god-peasant.” He taught such skills as acupuncture and using fire to clear fields in his role as the second of the Three Sovereigns, along with Fuxi (foo-shee) and the Yellow Emperor. For 10 points, name this Chinese agriculture deity who was also known as the “God of Five Cereals.”
ANSWER: Shennong [or Wugushen or Wuguxiandi; accept answers that refer to a God of Five Grains or God of Five Cereals before the “Five”]

658.
ID: 154918  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 21 - Oklahoma + Michigan B | Number: 12
TOSSUP: A voice repeatedly calls out “another strike!” during a speech delivered for this organization that argues that the “common people” are in fact the “uncommon people.” The narrator realizes that a member of this organization is missing an eye when he puts his glass eye in a water glass while ranting about discipline. A member of this group buys cheesecake for the main character after watching him incite a crowd to move the belongings of an evicted elderly couple back into their apartment. The protagonist provides false lists of new members to this organization after resolving to “overcome them with yeses.” A missing member of this organization reappears selling Sambo dolls on the street; the shooting of that man, Tod Clifton, by a police officer leads to riots incited by an enemy of this organization, the nationalist Ras the Exhorter. For 10 points, name this communist organization whose member Jack recruits the narrator as a spokesperson in Ralph Ellison’s Invisible Man.
ANSWER: the Brotherhood

659.
ID: 154919  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 21 - Oklahoma + Michigan B | Number: 13
TOSSUP: After this man’s family dubbed a portrait of him by Théobald Chartran the “Mewing Cat,” this man had that portrait destroyed. This man offered a “layman’s view of an art exhibition” in Outlook magazine of an art exhibit at which he supposedly interrupted Arthur B. Davies’s explanation of a painting to yell that the artist “is nuts and his imagination has gone wild.” The pose for another portrait of this man was selected when, while he and the artist were inspecting locations for the sitting, this man turned around impatiently and answered a question with “don’t I?” This man, who reportedly stormed through the Armory Show yelling “that’s not art!”, is the subject of a portrait in which he puts his hand on the knob of a balustrade post at the bottom of a staircase. That portrait of this man is the only official presidential portrait by John Singer Sargent. For 10 points, name this president who received a copy of Frederic Remington’s Bronco Buster in recognition of his service in the Rough Riders.
ANSWER: Theodore Roosevelt [or Teddy Roosevelt; or Theodore Roosevelt Jr.; prompt on “TR”]

660.
ID: 154922  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 21 - Oklahoma + Michigan B | Number: 16
TOSSUP: A piece of this type E minor has a first movement marked allegro piacevole (pya-che-vo-le). The finale of a different piece of this type quotes the folk songs “On the Green Meadow” and “Under the Green Apple Tree,” both of which the composer had previously arranged in his 50 Russian Folk Songs. That finale in a piece of this type follows a third-movement “Elegie” that ends with all the instruments muted and playing harmonics. That piece of this type, which is not by Schumann, opens with an instrumental chorale passage marked sempre marcatissimo, in a movement designated a “Pezzo (PET-zoh) in forma di sonatina.” For his Introduction and Allegro, Edward Elgar returned to the same ensemble as his early piece of this type. Tchaikovsky’s piece of this type is in C major and, though not a suite, was written as an homage to Mozart. For 10 points, name these light compositions written for an orchestra with no winds or percussion.
ANSWER: serenades for strings [accept equivalents such as string serenades or serenades for string orchestra; prompt on “serenades”]

661.
ID: 154945  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Audiovisual
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 22 - WUSTL | Number: 19
TOSSUP: An operatic title character with this occupation sings the aria “Je t’implore et je tremble” (zhay tam-plore ay zhay trahm-bluh) while preparing to execute a captive. The opera in which that character of this profession appears was written at the height of the composer’s rivalry with Niccolò Piccinni, who wrote an opera on the same subject. A character with this occupation recounts the story of a lowborn daughter who saved a stranger from wild animals by distracting them with the sound of her wand. Another character with this occupation is remembered by the singers of the duet “Au fond du temple saint” (aw fahn duh tahm-pluh sahnt). The glockenspiel echoes one of these characters in the coloratura aria “Où va la jeune Hindoue” (ooh vah zhoon ahn-doo), better known as the “Bell Song.” That character of this profession sings the “Flower Duet” with her servant Mallika and falls in love with the British officer Gérald before committing suicide. For 10 points, what occupation is held by Leila in Bizet’s The Pearl Fishers, and by the title characters of Gluck’s Iphigénie en Tauride and Leo Delibes’s Lakmé?
ANSWER: priestess(es) [accept more specific answers such as priestess of Brahma or priestess of Artemis]

662.
ID: 154914  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 21 - Oklahoma + Michigan B | Number: 8
TOSSUP: Martin West produced two translations of this poem, one in Homeric Greek and the other in Nonnian hexameter. Yuen Ren Chao’s paper “Dimensions of Fidelity in Translation with Special Reference to Chinese” discusses translating this poem as part of Warren Weaver’s project to render its poet “in many tongues.” An essay by Douglas Hofstadter argues that translating this poem creates the problem of finding “the same node” in two networks that are “extremely nonisomorphic.” That essay claims that many words in this poem serve as “exciters of nearby symbols,” and questions whether the French word lubricilleux can invoke meanings like “slippery” and “lithe.” In this poem, a man says “come to my arms, my beamish boy!” and “chortle[s] in his joy.” This poem’s hero defeats his “manxome foe” in the “tulgey wood” using his “vorpal blade.” “Twas brillig, and the slithy toves / did gyre and gimble in the wabe” is the first line of, for 10 points, what nonsense poem from Lewis Carroll’s Through the Looking Glass?
ANSWER: “Jabberwocky”

663.
ID: 154913  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Philosophy | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 21 - Oklahoma + Michigan B | Number: 7
TOSSUP: A view of society that doesn’t make use of these constructs, instead focusing on the mother-child relationship, is proposed in a Virginia Held essay. As an adjective, this sort of entity names a theory advanced in a book that uses a thought experiment in which a World Cup broadcast must be interrupted to rescue Jones from the transmitter room to criticize the aggregative logic of utilitarianism. Carole Pateman and Charles Mills collaborated on a volume after respectively writing seminal books on the sexist and racist underpinnings of theories of these entities. An ethical theory named for this sort of thing defines wrongness via reasonably rejectable principles and was developed in T. M. Scanlon’s What We Owe to Each Other. A book titled for one of these things contrasts the government with the sovereign, which represents the people’s “general will.” For 10 points, the claim “man is free, but is everywhere in chains” appears in a Rousseau work titled for a “social” agreement of what type?
ANSWER: contracts [or social contracts; or contractualism; accept answers mentioning forms of the word contracts such as contractual; accept answers mentioning social contracts; prompt on “agreements” or equivalents]

664.
ID: 154912  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: History | Subcategory: History British
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 21 - Oklahoma + Michigan B | Number: 6
TOSSUP: During one embarrassing moment, this man sang “Waiting at the Church” and incorrectly attributed it to Marie Lloyd. Harold Laski encouraged this man to study and lecture at the London School of Economics, but this man served in the navy and wrote The Enemy Japan instead. With the support of Dai Kneath, he defeated George Thomas for a seat in Cardiff South. In his memoir Time and Chance, this prime minister claimed that introducing the Commonwealth Immigrants Bill was an unwelcome task. As Chancellor of the Exquecher, he supported the “little budget.” As prime minister, he had to borrow 3.9 billion dollars during the “IMF crisis.” He caused controversy when he appointed Peter Jay as the British Ambassador to the U.S. His reply to a question about “mounting chaos” was reported in The Sun under the headline “Crisis? What Crisis?” For 10 points, name this British prime minister who presided over the “Winter of Discontent.”
ANSWER: James Callaghan [or Leonard James Callaghan; or Baron Callaghan of Cardiff]

665.
ID: 154915  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 21 - Oklahoma + Michigan B | Number: 9
TOSSUP: Matthew Fisher attached the name of these phenomena to a glass phase in high-temperature superconducting oxides. The aerodynamics of wings are often modeled using a method named for a “lattice” of these phenomena. Yarmchuk et al. photographed “stationary arrays” and “lines” of these phenomena, and those lines are singularities at which the superfluid density vanishes. The proliferation, or “unbinding,” of these phenomena marks the Kosterlitz-Thouless transition in the XY model. Cylinders are especially prone to the “shedding” of these phenomena, and the frequency of that shedding is proportional to the Strouhal number. Lars Onsager predicted the existence of quantized phenomena of this type in superfluid helium. The tangential velocity decreases with distance in “free” type of these phenomena, which can form even when the curl of the velocity is zero. For 10 points, name these phenomena that consist of fluids swirling around an axis.
ANSWER: vortices [or vortexes; accept quantum vortex or vortex lattice(s) or vortex unbinding or vortex shedding or free vortex]

666.
ID: 154910  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 21 - Oklahoma + Michigan B | Number: 4
TOSSUP: An article in the Barrow Journal of Neurosurgery claimed that history would have been different if Jean Massot had not performed brain surgery on this man. As commander of the left wing, he helped defeat the Ottoman Empire at the Battle of Macin. At another clash, he forced the French to abandon the Kaluga road by defeating Eugene de Beauharnais. This man’s victory at Slobozia, which led to the signing of the Treaty of Bucharest, is often referred to as his “Danube operation.” He once claimed that he would bury the French at Galicia, but his plan to retreat to the Carpathians was rejected and led to a crushing defeat for his allies. He ascended to commander-in-chief by replacing Barclay de Tolly after the Battle of Smolensk. This man, who led the Russo-Austrian force at Austerlitz, began his military career at age twelve and was mentored by Alexander Suvorov. For 10 points, name this general who led the Russian defense at the Battle of Borodino.
ANSWER: Mikhail Kutuzov [or Mikhail Illarionovich Golenishchev-Kutuzov]

667.
ID: 154911  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 21 - Oklahoma + Michigan B | Number: 5
TOSSUP: In October 2016, FASB removed the controversial “step two” of a test regarding a line item known by this term. Accounting Standards Update 2014-2 gave private companies the option to amortize an asset known by this term over ten years. A two-step “impairment test” of an asset known by this term required a comparison of its “implied fair value” to its “carrying value,” which can typically only be determined after an acquisition. This term denotes an intangible asset that definitionally accounts for the difference in the price paid for a company and the company’s book value; in other words, this term refers to the value of a company attributed to its relationships and reputation. In the Nicomachean Ethics, Aristotle’s term eunoia is typically translated to this English-language word, which denotes the benevolent feelings that friends have for one another. For 10 points, what positive term also names a nonprofit that solicits donations and runs a chain of thrift stores?
ANSWER: goodwill [accept Goodwill Industries International Inc.]

668.
ID: 154905  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 20 - NYU + Johns Hopkins B | Number: 19
TOSSUP: In this modern-day country, a group of poor farmers were murdered by the militia after they tried to board a train without tickets during the Kileler Uprising. A major fire in this country led the government to commission French archaeologist Ernest Hébrard to rebuild a city. During a famine in this country, food relief was provided by the SS Kurtulus, known as the “Steamship that Carried Peace,” which sunk on its fifth voyage. A soldier from this country reportedly chased his stray dog north across the border of another country, instigating the “Incident at Petrich” in 1925. This country, which was invaded during Operation Marita, was home to a daring style of dress popularized by its queen Amalia of Oldenburg after she married its first modern king Otto I. the Fourth of August Regime was declared by Ioannis Metaxas in, for 10 points, what country, where a 1917 “great fire” erupted in the city of Thessalonica?
ANSWER: Greece [or Hellenic Republic; or Hellas]

669.
ID: 154916  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 21 - Oklahoma + Michigan B | Number: 10
TOSSUP: One composer’s third numbered composition of this type quotes a drinking song of the Parecis people and uses the male choir to imitate a woodpecker. In a different piece of this type, which quotes the popular song “Yará,” the chorus mostly sings words made of primitive syllables, starting with the tenors on the words “ja-ka-tá ka-ma-ra-já.” Francisca Gonzaga is credited with adapting this genre to the piano in pieces such as “Corta-Jaca” and “Atraente,” the latter of which was originally published as a polka. Another composer applied the name of this genre to 14 pieces, the last two of which are lost, and the tenth of which is called “Rasga o Coraçao” (cor-a-sao), or “It tears the heart.” Originally, this was a purely instrumental genre whose masters included Jacob do Bandolim and Pixinguinha (pee-shin-geen-yah), and it was later adapted by Heitor Villa-Lobos. For 10 points, name this genre of Brazilian popular music whose name comes from the Portuguese for “to cry.”
ANSWER: choro (sho-ru or sho-ro) [or chôru; or chorinho; or choros]

670.
ID: 154904  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 20 - NYU + Johns Hopkins B | Number: 18
TOSSUP: Zenithal bistable devices rely on patterning these materials. The free-energy density in these materials can be approximated by expanding to second order in the curvature strains and collecting the terms into “bend,” “splay,” and “twist” terms, which yields the Oseen-Frank expression for that free energy. A parameter that characterizes these materials is typically computed as the average of the second Legendre polynomial of cosine theta, where theta is the angle between the director and the molecular axis. The Landau-de Gennes approach describes these materials phenomenologically. Depending on whether their order varies with temperature alone or temperature and concentration, these materials can be classified as thermotropic or lyotropic. For 10 points, name these materials whose constituent molecules exhibit local alignment but lack the long-range three-dimensional order of a true solid.
ANSWER: liquid crystals [or LCs; accept nematic liquid crystals; prompt on “nematic” or “nematic phase”]

671.
ID: 154903  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 20 - NYU + Johns Hopkins B | Number: 17
TOSSUP: Robert Baldwin argued that the nearest figure in a painting whose title mentions this person represented hope, citing First Corinthians 9-10. Hieronymus Bosch’s The Hay Wain inspired Frans Hogenbeck’s engraving All Hay, in which this person illustrates a maxim about someone who “shall deceive himself.” This person is shown upside-down near a corner of an engraving from the 1560s that depicts an “armed three-master” in the foreground. In making an artistic cropping of a painting showing this person in the bottom right, Andre Breton cited the bombing of Dusseldorf and cut away images such as a bag of seeds resting against a rock and a horse with a blinker over its left eye. Ovid’s Metamorphoses is the source of the images of a partridge, shepherd, and fisherman in a painting whose title mentions this person. Ships sail toward the setting sun as a plowman leads a horse in a painting titled after, for 10 points, what mythological figure’s “fall,” a work attributed to Pieter Bruegel the Elder?
ANSWER: Icarus [accept Landscape with the Fall of Icarus]

672.
ID: 154906  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 20 - NYU + Johns Hopkins B | Number: 20
TOSSUP: A critic claimed that this novel shocked its readers as Édouard Manet did “the bewhiskered philistines of his day” with its lengthy description of an overgrown garden shaded by aspen trees. A metaphor in this novel’s first chapter compares the tailcoats of men at a ball to flies fluttering around a block of sugar cut by an old housekeeper. During Dimitri’s trial in The Brothers Karamazov, the lawyer Kirillovich questions the optimism of a passage from this novel in which the narrator asks “who invented thee!” of a “bird-like” object. In a study of this novel’s author that examines those passages, Vladimir Nabokov argued that this novel’s characters exude a type of vulgarity called “poshlust.” In the last paragraph of this novel, the narrator imagines how “nations and states gaze askance as they step aside and give her the right away” in an extended metaphor comparing Russia to a three-horse sleigh, or troika. For 10 points, name this novel about the conman Chichikov by Nikolai Gogol.
ANSWER: Dead Souls [or Mjórtvyje dúshi] ACF Nationals 2018 Editors: Jordan Brownstein, Andrew Hart, Stephen Liu, Aaron Rosenberg, Andrew Wang, Ryan Westbrook Packet by NYU (Ben Chin, Mary Akdemir, Arnav Sood, Rahul Rao-Pothuraju, Ali Hasson, Harrison Hsu, Harrison Whitaker, Alec Vulfson) and Johns Hopkins B (Joseph Cleary, Forrest Hammel, Tommy Tripp, Walter Zhao) Bonuses

673.
ID: 154901  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 20 - NYU + Johns Hopkins B | Number: 15
TOSSUP: An essay titled for this activity calls for a “Society for the Diffusion of Useful Ignorance” to spread “Beautiful Knowledge.” In the last chapter of a book about this activity, the author looks back at a smog-shrouded Las Vegas from a campground in Red Rocks. Wordsworth’s acquaintance John Stewart and the Peace Pilgrim are among the anecdotes about this activity discussed in a 2000 history of it. An essay about this activity proclaims “eastward I go only by force; but westward I go free” in a passage identifying the West with “the Wild”; The Atlantic published that popular essay titled for this activity shortly after the death of its author, Henry David Thoreau. The recovering alcoholic Stephen Katz appears a Bill Bryson book about engaging in this activity “in the woods,” and women engaging in it in cities is the subject of Lauren Elkin’s book Flaneuse. For 10 points, Rebecca Solnit’s Wanderlust profiles what mode of travel described in many John Muir books?
ANSWER: walking [or hiking; accept any synonyms of traveling on foot such as strolling or tramping; prompt on “traveling” or “wandering” or similar terms; accept more specific answers such as hiking the Appalachian trail]

674.
ID: 154900  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 20 - NYU + Johns Hopkins B | Number: 14
TOSSUP: A king by this name came to power by publicly executing the previous ruler nicknamed “son of the water carrier,” or Bacha-e Saqaw (bah-chah-ee SAH-kow), but after four years of rule he was shot and killed at a high school graduation ceremony by the rebel Abdul Khaliq in 1933. A much earlier ruler of this name required his subjects to wear a hat with four peaks named for him, and won an early victory as army chief at the Battle of Damghan, and then built a city named for himself after destroying the Hotaki Dynasty. That ruler of this name developed a Sunni school known as Ja’farism and fought a two-year war against the Lezgins in Dagestan after they killed and desecrated the corpse of his brother Ebrahim. That ruler of this name, who gouged out the eyes of his eldest son Reza Qoli Mirza, won the Battle of Karnal, after which he plundered the Red Fort. For 10 points, give the name of this Shah who ruled Iran after the Safavid Dynasty and captured the Mughal Dynasty’s Peacock Throne.
ANSWER: Nadir [or Nader; accept Nadir Shah or Nader Shah or Nader Shah Afshar or Nader Qoli Beyg or Muhammad Nadir Shah or Muhammad Nadir Khan; prompt on “Muhammad” or “Khan” before “Damghan”]

675.
ID: 154902  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Philosophy | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 20 - NYU + Johns Hopkins B | Number: 16
TOSSUP: This philosopher suggested that economic thought posits perfectly rational “cognitive angels” as an example of one of the “useful untruths,” or “idealizations” that he discusses in a book drawing on Frank Ramsey and Hans Vaihinger. This philosopher discussed how his father published an article asking whether his country was “worth dying for in an essay responding to Martha Nussbaum’s critical views on patriotism. This author of As If criticized W. E. B. Du Bois for merely rotating the axis of racial hierarchy in his essay on the “Uncompleted Argument.” This racial eliminativist discussed the “conceptual mistakes” of “creed, color, country, [and] culture” in his Reith lectures. This philosopher writes “The Ethicist” column for the New York Times, has written In My Father’s House, and has proposed an “Ethics in a World of Strangers” in another book. For 10 points, name this author of Cosmopolitanism, a British-born Ghanaian-American philosopher.
ANSWER: Kwame Anthony Appiah [or Kwame Akroma-Ampim Kusi Anthony Appiah]

676.
ID: 154907  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature European
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 21 - Oklahoma + Michigan B | Number: 1
TOSSUP: A 1975 production of this play held in the Performing Garage, for which the space was filled with ropes and pulleys and the audience served a meal during Scene 3, is discussed in Richard Schechner’s book Performance Theory. Offstage funeral music blares during a scene of this play in which the chaplain criticizes a woman for using a pipe gifted to her and suggests that they enter a “closer relationship.” Helen Weigel wordlessly threw her head back, mouth open, to portray this play’s “silent scream” in the most famous example of the gestus technique. For a 2009 production of Tony Kushner’s translation of this play, Duke Special composed new music for the “Song of the Great Capitulation” and the “Song of Fraternization.” At the end of this play, the protagonist sings a lullaby for her daughter, who was shot while beating a drum to warn of a surprise attack, then hitches herself to her cart. For 10 points, name this Bertolt Brecht play about a canteen woman.
ANSWER: Mother Courage and Her Children [or Mutter Courage und ihre Kinder]

677.
ID: 154899  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Mythology | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 20 - NYU + Johns Hopkins B | Number: 13
TOSSUP: A man with this name was called Labicus in Italy for introducing the military girdle there, and lost his powers of divination after spitting into his teacher’s mouth. A son of Sisyphus with this name refused to let his mares breed, so Aphrodite drove them mad when they drank from her sacred well. Like Diomedes, that man of this name was eaten by his horses at the funeral games of Pelias and became Taraxippus, a ghost who haunted horses. After using a mulberry simile to describe a calf that changed from white to red to black, Polyidus found a boy with this name by tracking a mouse to a vat of honey in which that son of Minos had drowned. A grandson of Bellerophon with this name dueled Diomedes at Troy, but departed in peace because their grandfathers had been friends. A fisherman became a god of this name after eating a magical herb. Circe turned Scylla into a monster out of love for a sea-god of, for 10 points, what name, shared by a co-ruler with Sarpedon of Lycia during the Trojan War?
ANSWER: Glaucus [or Glaukos]

678.
ID: 154898  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: History | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 20 - NYU + Johns Hopkins B | Number: 12
TOSSUP: The selection of a shade of this color was based on a 1935 “Report on Color and Lighting” that suggested emphasizing a structure “as an important feature of the landscape.” That report was written by Irving Morrow, who settled on using an “unusual” shade of this color that was similar to the primer on metal shipped from Bethlehem Steel. A craft nicknamed the “Glamorous Glennis” was painted this color on a mission that involved being launched from the bomb bay of a B-29. Safety regulations require the use of white alternating with this color in certain tower structures, such as the Yerevan TV Tower and the Tokyo Tower. This is the color of the model of Chuck Yeager’s supersonic Bell X-1 found at the Air and Space Museum. A more reddish shade of the “international” form of this color was used for the paint that links Route 101 to Marin County from San Francisco. For 10 points, name this “international” color of the paint of the Golden Gate Bridge and NASA’s launch and entry space suits.
ANSWER: orange [accept international orange; do not accept or prompt on “red”]

679.
ID: 154909  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 21 - Oklahoma + Michigan B | Number: 3
TOSSUP: Two atoms of this element are coordinated to an arene bridge in a complex with single-molecule magnet properties. Stephen Liddle’s group was the first to synthesize a complex containing a triple bond between this element and nitrogen. After determining that osmium was too expensive, iron catalysts made moot Fritz Haber’s proposed use of catalysts based on this element. This element is found in the center of the most commonly studied D8h (“D-sub-8-H”) molecule, which sandwiches this element between a pair of cyclo·octa·tetra·enide rings. A magnesium acetate of this element is a common negative stain for electron microscopy. This element’s hexafluoride undergoes gaseous diffusion or gas centrifugation in order to isolate its lighter isotope, a process known as enrichment. This element most commonly exists as a dioxide, or in a 3:8 ratio with oxygen, which is a form of yellowcake. For 10 points name this actinide whose 235 isotope is the only naturally occurring fissile isotope.
ANSWER: uranium [or U]

680.
ID: 154896  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature World
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 20 - NYU + Johns Hopkins B | Number: 10
TOSSUP: The protagonist of this novel repeatedly recalls the headline “Lost in the Fiery Hell of a Canyon a Woman Struggles Desperately for Life.” The last sentence of each chapter of this novel, such as “give me your hand” and “hell is my maximum” is repeated as the first sentence of the following chapter. While in a place she calls a “minaret,” the narrator of this novel realizes that she was hated by a woman who drew two mummy-like nudes and a dog in charcoal on the wall. In this novel, the main character vomits bread and milk that she’d consumed before forcing herself to eat an object that sporadically exudes white paste throughout the narrative. The protagonist of this novel, who is only identified by the tag on her luggage, enters the room of her penthouse where her recently departed maid had lived and undergoes a mystical experience after crushing a cockroach there. For 10 points, name this biblically titled novel by Clarice Lispector.
ANSWER: The Passion According to G. H. [or A paixão segundo G. H.]

681.
ID: 154895  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 20 - NYU + Johns Hopkins B | Number: 9
TOSSUP: Due to their flexibility, these compounds can experience the “gate-opening effect” that is likened to breathing. Supercritical CO2 is commonly used to activate these compounds, which can undergo a collapse upon removal of a solvent. HKUST-1 (“H-K-U-S-T-one”) is an example of one of these compounds formed from MBBs called “paddlewheels.” Omar Yaghi and Susumu Kitagawa are pioneers in the production of these compounds. Functionalization of these compounds is typically done through postsynthetic modifications. These compounds are the basis of reticular chemistry, and their names typically consist of an acronym referring to where they were synthesized followed by a number. ZIFs are a class of these molecules containing imidazolate linkers, while terephthalic (teh-ref-THAL-ik) acid and other bridging ligands are commonly used in their synthesis. These molecules are almost always produced using hydrothermal or solvothermal methods, and are designed to be similar to zeolites. For 10 points, name these porous coordination polymers.
ANSWER: metal-organic frameworks [accept MOFs; accept zeolitic imidazolate frameworks or ZIFs before “ZIFs”]

682.
ID: 154897  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 20 - NYU + Johns Hopkins B | Number: 11
TOSSUP: Kjersti Aagaard’s use of WGS and 16S rDNA studies found that the microbiome of this organ was most similar to that of the oral cavity. A protein involved in the formation of this structure is a membrane-fusion protein coded by an endogenous retroviral element based on env proteins. High expression of heme oxygenase-1 in this organ assists in the activation of Tregs (tee-regs) that assist in providing this structure immune privilege. EVT cells in this structure enter another organ and are assisted by dNK cells in remodelling that other organ’s spiral arteries. Syncytin is required for the development of this structure that contains macrophages called Hofbauer cells. Immunoglobulin G can pass through this structure that develops from the trophoblast. In marsupials, a choriovitelline form of this organ forms, while the non-extinct members of eutheria are named for their use of this organ. For 10 points, name this organ that connects the umbilical cord to the uterus.
ANSWER: placenta [accept placental (mammals)]

683.
ID: 154917  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Math
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 21 - Oklahoma + Michigan B | Number: 11
TOSSUP: The isoparametric formulation of this approach allows one to deal with complicated shapes more effectively. The most common implementation of this approach in structural analysis was developed at Boeing in the 1950s and is known as the “direct stiffness method.” This approach is preferred over a competitor for handling boundary geometries more complex than simple rectangles and squares. The Nastran software suite developed for NASA in the 1960s is based on this method, and the leading commercial suites that use it today include Abaqus and COMSOL. In this approach, solutions are expressed as a linear combination of basis functions defined at grid points. For 10 points, name this approximate method for solving partial differential equations that usually involves dividing space into a mesh with discrete regions, and is more general than the finite difference method.
ANSWER: finite element method [or finite element analysis; or method of finite elements; or FEM; or FEA; or MFE]

684.
ID: 154946  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 22 - WUSTL | Number: 20
TOSSUP: 5-iodo·willardi·ine selectively binds to a receptor for this compound. The failed drug LY-404,039 ("L-Y-4-oh-4-oh-3-9"), created by Lilly, targeted this compound’s receptors in an attempt to treat schizophrenia because the hypofunction of this compound’s receptors is a hypothesis behind the cause of schizophrenia. Olney’s lesions were historically believed to be caused by inhibitors of receptors of this compound, whose activity is increased in response to BDNF. In some cases of Rasmussen’s encephalitis, autoantibodies target this compound’s receptors. Memantine and ketamine block a receptor for this compound; that receptor may also be blocked by magnesium ions. Ionotropic receptors for this compound may react to kainate (KAY-ih-nate), AMPA, and NMDA, and are involved in long-term potentiation and synaptic plasticity. GABA (GAB-uh) is synthesized by decarboxylating this compound. For 10 points, name this excitatory neurotransmitter that, like aspartate, is an amino acid with an acidic side chain.
ANSWER: glutamate [or Glu; prompt on “E”] ACF Nationals 2018 Editors: Jordan Brownstein, Andrew Hart, Stephen Liu, Aaron Rosenberg, Andrew Wang, Ryan Westbrook Packet by WUSTL A (Charles Hang, Patrick Butenhoff, Cyrus Zhou) Bonuses

685.
ID: 154889  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Other
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 20 - NYU + Johns Hopkins B | Number: 3
TOSSUP: A 1978 paper explained a sub-feature found in one of these by taking into account a type of wave theorized in another context that was damped by nonlinear and viscous effects. That Peter Goldreich and Scott Tremaine paper analyzed these objects, which are much smaller than galaxies, using the density wave theory of C. C. Lin and Frank Shu. A wavelike deformation within a structure of this type is informally named “Earhart” and is part of the larger class of disturbances in these structures called “propellers” after their shape. Regions of high density in these structures surrounded by regions of lower density comprise a type of microstructure known as a “self-gravity wake.” Another of these structures is believed to draw its material from Metis, which lies within the Roche limit of its primary. Two of these structures designated ‘A’ and ‘B’ are separated by a gap that has been cleared of material by Mimas, called the Cassini division. For 10 points, name these regions of debris that orbit the gas giant planets.
ANSWER: planetary rings [accept more specific answers such as rings of Saturn or rings of Jupiter] [The Goldreich and Tremaine paper explains the Cassini division using density-wave theory.]

686.
ID: 154888  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 20 - NYU + Johns Hopkins B | Number: 2
TOSSUP: The Flanders Quartet consists of players of this instrument, and it is the primary instrument Paul Leenhouts. Georg Philipp Telemann wrote a B-flat major double concerto for two of these instruments, strings, and continuo. Luciano Berio is credited with revolutionizing the 20th-century repertoire for this instrument with the piece Gesti, which was written for Frans Brüggen. Rampe and Zampf argued that an unusually named instrument in one of J. S. Bach’s scores actually consists of two of these instruments joined together. The French flageolet (flah-zhoh-lay) differs from this instrument in its use of two thumbholes. The “fiauti d’echo” parts in the fourth Brandenburg Concerto were most likely intended to be played on this instrument. For 10 points, name this woodwind instrument ubiquitous in primary education, which, unlike the transverse flute, uses a whistle mouthpiece and is held straight in front of the player.
ANSWER: recorder [or block flute(s); prompt on “fipple flute(s)” or “duct flute(s)” or “pennywhistles”; prompt on “fiauti d’echo” or “echo flutes” or “flauti d’echo” or “tin whistles” before “fiauti”; prompt on “flute” before “flute”; do not accept or prompt on “transverse flute(s)”]

687.
ID: 154890  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 20 - NYU + Johns Hopkins B | Number: 4
TOSSUP: After assuming one office, this man gave his “Proclamation against Vice and Immorality,” urging his state to replenish its militia reserves. He was the sole dissent in a vote electing himself governor, a position he retained until John Cook called for a reelection. This man used the anthem of the British Royal Navy, “Heart of Oak,” as music for a song he composed with the line “by uniting we stand, by dividing we fall.” As council president of his state, he refused to take military action against the Veterans Mutiny of 1783, leading Congress to relocate itself to Princeton. This composer of the “Liberty Song” had his home at Poplar Hall and wrote two series of letters under the name “Fabius” to defend the Constitutional Convention. This man wrote down objections to the Townshend Acts in his Letters from a Pennsylvania Farmer. For 10 points, name this Founding Father, known as the “Penman of the Revolution,” who wrote the Olive Branch Petition.
ANSWER: John Dickinson

688.
ID: 154886  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 19 - Minnesota A | Number: 20
TOSSUP: By detecting the decay of these particles, the Fermi Large Area Telescope provided direct evidence of cosmic-ray proton acceleration in supernova remnants. These particles appear at the left and right ends of the “S equals zero” line on the pseudoscalar nonet diagram. The fact that these particles would be produced by way of delta baryons in interactions between the CMBR and cosmic rays led to the formulation of the GZK limit. While the neutral variety of these particles usually decays into two photons, it can decay into a photon and an electron-positron pair in Dalitz decay. The charged versions of these particles usually decay into a muon and muon neutrino. These particles were wrongly predicted by Yukawa to be the carriers of the strong force and were first identified by their “double meson” tracks. For 10 points, name these first-generation mesons whose charged versions contain “up and anti-down” or “down and anti-up” quarks.
ANSWER: pions [accept pi mesons; accept neutral pions or neutral pi mesons before “left”; accept pi after the first mention of “meson”; prompt on “mesons”] ACF Nationals 2018 Editors: Jordan Brownstein, Andrew Hart, Stephen Liu, Aaron Rosenberg, Andrew Wang, Ryan Westbrook Packet by Minnesota A (Shan Kothari, Sam Bailey, Jason Asher, John Waldron) Bonuses

689.
ID: 154885  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Other
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 19 - Minnesota A | Number: 19
TOSSUP: In a work shown at 1982’s documenta 7 exhibition, this artist juxtaposed a mural-sized photograph of an antiwar demonstration with a portrait of Ronald Reagan placed behind a velvet rope. That work by this artist is Ölgemälde: Hommage à Marcel Broodthaers. Hilton Kramer accused this artist of undermining “the very idea of art as a realm of aesthetic discourse” in a review of his U.S. Isolation Box, Grenada, 1983. For another work, this artist used a mock-cornice to frame three banners, one advertising a Nigerian art exhibition sponsored by an oil company, the other two quoting the company’s refusal to boycott South Africa’s government. This artist behind MetroMobiltan exposed the network of corporations used by the Shapolsky family to control low-income housing in a work rejected by the Guggenheim. He used transparent ballot boxes to poll the MoMA’s visitors about Nelson Rockefeller’s stance on the Vietnam War. For 10 points, name this German artist, a leading proponent of institutional critique.
ANSWER: Hans Haacke (HAH-kuh)

690.
ID: 154887  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Religion | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 20 - NYU + Johns Hopkins B | Number: 1
TOSSUP: One of this religion’s places of worship contains a venerated wall where this faith’s two youngest martyrs, a nine-year-old and six-year-old boy, were bricked up. The most sacred places of worship in this religion are known collectively as the “five thrones” or five “seats of temporal authority.” This religion’s places of worship, which often incorporate an outdoor element called a sarovar, traditionally offer all visitors to their main halls a type of sweets made from semolina, butter, and sugar. This religion’s places of worship provide space for the group social practice known as Pangat, which is a subset of this religion’s practice of fellowship called Sangat. Places of worship in this religion include a main hall called a darbar and a langar, which is a communal kitchen serving vegetarian food. For 10 points, name this Indian religion whose practitioners worship at gurdwaras such as Harmandir Sahib, also known as the Golden Temple.
ANSWER: Sikhism [or Sikhi; accept answers mentioning forms of the word Sikh]

691.
ID: 154891  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 20 - NYU + Johns Hopkins B | Number: 5
TOSSUP: In Rabih Alameddine’s An Unnecessary Woman, Fadia’s yells of “take her back!” remind Aaliya of this poem as she refuses her half-brothers’ requests to look after her mother. In The Loved One, Evelyn Waugh compares Dennis Barlow to a monk in prayer as he repeats a line from this poem set “here at the quiet limit of the world.” This poem’s speaker tells his lover that her “eyes brighten slowly close to mine, / ere yet they blind the stars,” before noting that her horses “beat the twilight into flakes of fire.” Its speaker says “and all I was, in ashes” and later laments that “the Gods themselves cannot recall their gifts.” The first stanza of this poem says that “Man comes and tills the field and lies beneath. This poem, which begun as a pendant to “Ulysses,” opens with the line “the woods decay, the woods decay and fall.” The line “after many a summer dies the swan” appears in, for 10 points, what poem by Lord Tennyson about a lover of Eos who was given immortality but not eternal youth?
ANSWER: “Tithonus”

692.
ID: 154882  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Philosophy | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 19 - Minnesota A | Number: 16
TOSSUP: A thinker from this country posited a “thesis of pansomatism,” in which “a is a thing” is equivalent to “a is an extended and resistant object,” as part of his idea that only “things” exist, called reism. A radical nominalist from this country developed a hierarchy of Protothetic, Ontological, and Mereological systems of logic. Thinkers from this country replaced traditional signs for logical operations with the letters ‘N’, ‘K’, ‘A’, ‘C’, and ‘E’. A logician from this country attempted to solve the problem of future contingents by introducing an “undetermined” truth value, resulting in the first modern many-valued logic. After proving an “undefinability theorem,” a logician from this country defined the material adequacy condition, under which a statement “P” is true in the object language if and only if P is true in the metalanguage; that is his semantic theory of truth. For 10 points, what country’s Lviv school produced the logicians Alfred Tarski, Jan Łukasiewicz, Tadeusz Kotarbiński, and Stanisław Leśniewski?
ANSWER: Poland [or Polska; or Republic of Poland; or Rzeczpospolita Polska]

693.
ID: 154881  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 19 - Minnesota A | Number: 15
TOSSUP: A concerto in C major for this instrument is the most popular instrumental piece by François-Adrien Boieldieu (bwal-dee-oo). In Brahms’s A German Requiem, this instrument first enters on the word “Tränen” (tray-nen), or “tears,” and later plays the closing melodies of both the first and last movements. The composer of La Source, Alphonse Hasselmans, taught this instrument at the Paris Conservatoire. The modern version of this non-piano instrument was pioneered by Sébastien Érard. Two of these instruments play the opening theme of Vyšehrad (vih-SHEH-heh-rad) from Ma Vlast. Debussy wrote a sonata for flute, viola, and this instrument, and after the flute’s opening phrase in the Prelude to the Afternoon of a Faun, this instrument plays a glissando. It is usually played without the pinky fingers, and the “concert” version of this instrument has seven double-action pedals. For 10 points, name this instrument with 47 strings.
ANSWER: concert harp(s) [or pedal harp(s)]

694.
ID: 154883  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 19 - Minnesota A | Number: 17
TOSSUP: The narrator asks this character “do the people in your country love you?” instead of relaying an offer of tea in a scene of Javier Marías’s A Heart So White that translates a conversation between a Spanish man and this person. An effigy of this figure is often picked for burning at the Club Hot Wax in The Satanic Verses, in which Chamcha nicknames this person “Torture.” In a short story, a character initially mistaken for the son of the boiler man Duggan enters the narrator’s house to wait for this character to leave an eye surgery, then says “fucking rejoice” after killing her. Nick Guest retreats to the bathroom for a threesome with his lover Wani and a waiter after dancing with this woman in Alan Hollinghurst’s The Line of Beauty. The title story of 2014 Hilary Mantel short story collection is about this person’s fictional assassination by an IRA operative. For 10 points, Jonathan Lee’s novel High Dive is about an attempt to kill what woman nicknamed “Maggie” at the Brighton Hotel?
ANSWER: Margaret Thatcher [or Margaret Hilda Thatcher; accept The Assassination of Margaret Thatcher; prompt on “Maggie” or “Margaret” before “Maggie”; prompt on the Englishwoman or the British politician before “Satanic”]

695.
ID: 154879  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 19 - Minnesota A | Number: 13
TOSSUP: The founder of this kingdom was said to have risen from a lake during a dispute over a forest that nearly led to bloodshed, which that founder then mediated. After that event, this kingdom’s founder was tricked into reappearing, was kidnapped and offered a beautiful wife, and asked to stay as king. That man spoke the language Pulaar, which was foreign to the people of this kingdom. Women were able to rule states in this kingdom through the office of the Bur and could influence politics as Linger, or Queen Mother. The Denkanye and Kaabu kingdoms rose when this empire broke apart after the Battle of Danki. This empire, founded by Ndiadiane Ndiaye (n'jah-jahn-ay n'jah-yay) in AD 1350, collected tribute from its vassal states such as Walo and Sine despite tribute being forbidden by Serer tradition. Its territory was later absorbed by the imamate of Futa Jallon. For 10 points, name this empire, the namesake of a major ethnicity and language in the Gambia and Senegal.
ANSWER: Wolof empire [or Jolof Empire; or Djolof Empire; accept other polity types such as “kingdom” in place of “empire”]

696.
ID: 154880  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Other
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 19 - Minnesota A | Number: 14
TOSSUP: The time required for this process to go from the most remote point in the area of interest to the outlet is called the “time of concentration.” The peak rate of this process is estimated by the so-called “rational method” that sets it equal to an empirical coefficient times the discharge area times the precipitation intensity. In a model by Robert E. Horton, the exponential decay of a different process over time during a storm causes this process to increase. The “infiltration excess” mechanism of this process occurs due to limitations on the infiltration rate, whereas the “saturation excess” mechanism occurs due to soil saturation. High rainfall and impervious surfaces in urban areas increase the rate of this hydrological process, which is a dominant cause of soil erosion. For 10 points, name this flow of excess water on the surface of a landscape.
ANSWER: surface runoff [or overland flow; accept surface runoff rate; prompt on “surface flow”; prompt on “discharge” before “discharge”]

697.
ID: 154884  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 19 - Minnesota A | Number: 18
TOSSUP: After a battle fought in this country, the winner placed five bright blue shields on his buckler to depict the five kings he defeated, according to the account of his advisor St. Theotonius. Another battle that took place in this country allegedly involved a six-fingered baker woman who killed eight enemies with a shovel while hiding in her shop. After a wing in the sky signaled victory in battle, the order “Michael of the Wing” was founded in this country by a king whose son was given the nickname “the Populator” for leading settlers to northern stretches of this country. A vanguard of bachelor soldiers called the “Lover’s Flank” joined a group called the “Honeysuckle Flank” in a key medieval clash in this country, the Battle of Aljubarrota (AHL-zhu-bar-oh-tah). That battle led to the rise of a dynasty whose founder was succeeded by Edward the Philosopher. For 10 points, name this country whose Aviz Dynasty included Prince Henry the Navigator.
ANSWER: Portugal [or Kingdom of Portugal; or Reino de Portugal]

698.
ID: 154892  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 20 - NYU + Johns Hopkins B | Number: 6
TOSSUP: An essay by Maurice Bloch contrasts two types of this concept, a socially constructed type used for rituals and a universal type used for everyday life. A 1978 book argues that anthropological fieldwork has been plagued by the “schizogenic” use of this concept because of the “denial of coevalness,” which causes researchers to distinguish one type of this concept for themselves and another for the subjects they study. Clifford Geertz cited ceremonies with an “absence of climax” and a “depersonalizing” conception of personhood to argue that this concept is “immobilized” in Bali. Johannes Fabian described “how anthropology makes its object” in a book about this concept “and the other.” Benjamin Whorf argued that the Hopi language uses different grammar for this concept than European languages, causing the Hopi to perceive it differently. For 10 points, name this concept whose relation to linguistics, according to Saussure, can be considered from a “diachronous” or “synchronous” perspective.
ANSWER: time [accept equivalents such as temporality; accept Time and the Other]

699.
ID: 154875  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 19 - Minnesota A | Number: 9
TOSSUP: This author included an unconventional list of props including “smell effects: incense . . . dirt/filth smells/bodies” at the beginning of a play subtitled “A Historical Pageant.” In a play by this author, a woman says “you look like you've been reading Chinese poetry and drinking lukewarm sugarless tea; you look like death eating a soda cracker,” prompting the protagonist to wonder if she knows Warren Enright. A play by this author ends with the revolutionary Walker Vessels being injured by an explosion that is implied to have killed the two “freakish mulatto” daughters he had with his ex-wife Grace. A character who enters the stage eating an apple enrages the protagonist by calling him “Uncle Thomas Woolly-Head” before stabbing him in a play by this author about Lulu and Clay’s conversation on a New York City subway car. For 10 points, name this African-American author of the plays The Slave Ship, The Slave, and Dutchman.
ANSWER: Amiri Baraka [or (Everett) LeRoi Jones; or Imamu Amear Baraka]

700.
ID: 154874  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 19 - Minnesota A | Number: 8
TOSSUP: A speech titled for the “greatness” of this era claims that it is characterized by oligarchs leading a popular movement where the “social system compact” is “closely knitted, less splendid on the surface, but stronger at the core.” The journalist W. J. Cash wrote an essay to debunk the notion that this period was a discontinuous break from the past. A man dubbed the “apostle” of this period was the newspaper editor of the Constitution, Henry W. Grady. In a work titled for this period’s “promise,” Ed Ayers emphasized the important role of businessmen like Thomas A. Scott. A book about this period places its end at the date of Woodrow Wilson’s inauguration; that book by C. Vann Woodward is on the “origins” of this era. Its starting date is often given as 1877, when federal troops were removed and race relations became more flexible. For 10 points, give this two-word historiographical phrase that attempts to describe a more modern region of the postbellum, post-Reconstruction U.S.
ANSWER: New South [prompt on “the South”; accept “The Greatness of the New South” or The Promise of the New South or Origins of the New South or New South Democracy or New South Creed; do not accept or prompt on “Reconstruction”]

701.
ID: 154876  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 19 - Minnesota A | Number: 10
TOSSUP: These compounds are formed from the hydrolysis of a type of ester that typically contains pinacol. The MIDA ligand is used as a protecting group for these compounds by rehybridizing their centers from sp2 to sp3 ("s-p-two to s-p-three"). One of these compounds reacts with an amine and an aldehyde to perform a Mannich-like reaction named for Petasis. One of these functional groups replaces a leucine’s carboxyl group in the structure of the proteasome inhibitor bortezomib. Dehydrating these compounds causes them to trimerize into a compound containing a planar six-membered ring. In an undesirable side reaction, this functionality is protonated and cleaved, yielding its alkyl or aryl group, which occurs in coupling reactions such as the Chan-Lam or Suzuki reaction. These compounds are typically prepared by reacting a Grignard reagent with a borate ester. For 10 points name these organoborane compounds containing a boron bonded to an alkyl or aryl group and two hydroxyl groups.
ANSWER: boronic acids [accept boronates; do not accept or prompt on “boric acid(s)”]

702.
ID: 154872  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 19 - Minnesota A | Number: 6
TOSSUP: The right panel of this work copies the coffered ceiling of the Basilica of Maxentius to depict the Temple of Jerusalem, where Joseph is kneeling with a pair of doves before the priest Simeon. In another section of this work, a peacock and two birds are pecking at food while Zachariah greets a pregnant Mary. In its center panel, a sponge lies on top of an inscription written in Hebrew, Latin, and Greek; the inscription itself leans against a copper basin of semi-congealed blood containing three nails. In this work, an old man bracing himself against a wooden beam holds a white shroud with his teeth while supporting a mostly bare body in a pose reversed from Laocoon’s in the sculpture group. In this triptych located in Antwerp Cathedral, St. John has one foot on a ladder while helping Joseph of Arimathea and Nicodemus steady a collapsing body. For 10 points, name this triptych by Peter Paul Rubens whose central panel depicts the removal of the crucified body of Jesus.
ANSWER: The Descent from the Cross triptych

703.
ID: 154871  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 19 - Minnesota A | Number: 5
TOSSUP: A poem in this collection describes something the title man wanted to keep in a place “where everything is silence and the / beating of a bloody hand upon / a splintered table." The last section of this collection is a long address to the feral boy Victor of Aveyron titled “Meditations for a Savage Child.” This book’s title poem claims that “the words are purposes” and “the words are maps” and notes “we are, I am, you are by cowardice or courage the one who find our way back to this scene.” This collection, which split the National Book Award for Poetry with Allen Ginsberg’s The Fall of America, includes “The Ninth Symphony of Beethoven at Last Understood as a Sexual Message.” The speaker of this collection’s title poem carries “a book of myths in which our names do not appear” and has to perform the title action “not like Cousteau with his / assiduous team” but with an “awkward mask” and “absurd flippers.” For 10 points, name this Adrienne Rich collection titled for an action of underwater exploration.
ANSWER: Diving into the Wreck

704.
ID: 154873  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 19 - Minnesota A | Number: 7
TOSSUP: Steven Olley and Ariel Pakes developed a technique that accounts for simultaneity and selection bias when estimating parameters of these entities. Franklin Fisher criticized the stringent assumptions necessary for the “micro” version of these mathematical entities to aggregate to a “macro” one. The translog example of these objects is commonly used in estimation because it is linear in parameters and is an approximation of the CES type. A 2014 paper by Loukas Karabarbounis and Brent Neiman estimates one of their parameters to be about 1.25 and uses that fact to link falling investment prices to the declining labor share. The Inada conditions impose restrictions on the partial derivatives of these entities. A residual from estimating them is called “technical productivity” or “total factor productivity.” Inputs and outputs are related by, for 10 points, what mathematical entities, one of which was created in a collaboration between Paul Douglas and Charles Cobb?
ANSWER: production functions [accept microeconomic production functions or macroeconomic production functions or translog production function or CES production function or Cobb-Douglas production function; prompt on “functions”]

705.
ID: 154877  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 19 - Minnesota A | Number: 11
TOSSUP: Part of this line of poetry supplies the title of a memoir that depicts life in Czernowitz ("CHAIR"-noh-vitz) after World War I via literary portraits of Gregor von Rezzori’s family members. Part of this line is flashed on the screen after Tom says that “I think the rest of the play will explain itself” in the opening monologue of The Glass Menagerie. After lamenting the “decline of faith in the Spirit World,” Madame Arcati recites this line in its original French in Noel Coward’s Blithe Spirit. This line closes a stanza describing the death of Jean Buridan, who was sewn into a sack and cast into the Seine. This line is repeated in a poem that opens: “tell me now in what hidden way is / Lady Flora the lovely Roman?” Dante Gabriel Rossetti coined a new word to translate the final word of this line, antan. This is the refrain of a poem from Le Testament that asks where Queen Blanche, Héloise, and Joan of Arc have gone. For 10 points, give the refrain of François Villon’s “The Ballad of Dead Ladies,” which laments the passage of time.
ANSWER: “but where are the snows of yesteryear?” [or “mais où sont les neiges d’antan?”; accept longer answers that include either of the underlined portions; prompt on “the snows of yesteryear” or “les neiges d’antan”]

706.
ID: 154868  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 19 - Minnesota A | Number: 2
TOSSUP: The RscS ("r-s-c-s") hybrid sensor kinase alters the host range of one bacterium in this genus by inducing release of the Syp ("sip") exo·poly·saccharide. Rosenberg and Zilber-Rosenberg revived the hologenome concept after observing patterns of resistance to the shiloi species of this genus, which causes coral bleaching. The shortest known doubling time of any organism is in the natriegens member of this genus. A member of this genus produces a protein complex with five B subunits which form a ring that binds to GM1 gangliosides on target cells. ADP-ribosylation factors were discovered while researching the action of a toxin produced by a member of this genus. An organism moved out of this genus in 2007 uses quorum sensing to control the Lux operon. A member of this genus causes a disease whose symptoms include rice-water stool and can be transmitted through untreated sewage. For 10 points, name this Gram-negative bacterial genus whose comma-shaped members include the causative agent of cholera.
ANSWER: Vibrio [accept Aliivibrio before mention]

707.
ID: 154867  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Mythology | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 19 - Minnesota A | Number: 1
TOSSUP: After hearing a tale originally told by Shiva to Parvati, Gunadhya wrote that tale down on this many manuscripts in his own blood and burned all but one, which became the Brihatkatha. Along with Yogeshwari, the gods created this number of Matrikas to defeat Andhaka, a demon who generated copies of himself from his blood. Arundhati was the only member of a group of this many women not to become what the Atharvaveda (ah-TAR-vah-VAY-dah) calls “the cutters,” or the Krittika. Knowing that Agni desired a group of this many wives, Svaha wooed him by disguising herself as several of those women. According to the Rig Veda, Indra destroyed Vritra’s (VREE-tra's) 99 fortresses to free this number of rivers, corresponding to Saraswati and her sisters. A group of this many wise men in Hinduism includes Jamadagni, Kashyapa (KAHSH-yah-pah), and Vasistha (vah-SHEESH-tah). Those rishis, who correspond to the stars in Ursa Major, exemplify a common Asian motif of this many sages. For 10 points, give the number of sisters who make up the Pleiades in many mythologies.
ANSWER: seven [accept saptarishi or Seven Sages]

708.
ID: 154869  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 19 - Minnesota A | Number: 3
TOSSUP: Early in his rule, this ruler replaced his entire government in 24 hours with a group of temporary advisors known as the “Marionette Cabinet,” after which he staged a series of so-called “spontaneous demonstrations” complete with fireworks shows to release info to his subjects. This ruler was attacked by Beqir Walter, a member of the radical Bashkimi Club, which resulted in the killing of this man’s political opponent Avni Rustemi. After this man broke off an engagement, he feared that he would be poisoned and appointed his mother, Sadije (sah-DEE-yeh), to oversee food in the royal kitchen. This man re-entered the theater carrying a pistol after an attempt on his life was made at a Vienna performance of Pagliacci. This ruler’s Christmas Eve coup ended the democratizing efforts of Fan Noli. This king was forced to flee his country with his son, Crown Prince Leka, after this man was deposed by Benito Mussolini. For 10 points, name this former prime minister, president, and king of Albania.
ANSWER: King Zog I of Albania [or Zogu or Ahmet Muhtar Zogolli]

709.
ID: 154870  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 19 - Minnesota A | Number: 4
TOSSUP: The leader of a long-term experiment on these non-rodent mammals replaced Nikolai Dubinin as the head of an institute after Nikita Khrushchev’s support for Lysenkoism led him to sack Dubinin. A set of behavioral assays performed on these animals as part of that experiment grouped them into Class I, II, or III based on whether they would accept food from an experimenter’s hand, as described in a book co-authored by Lee Dugatkin. At the Institute of Cytology and Genetics in the Russian Academy of Sciences, Dmitry Belyayev and Lyudmila Trut have led a 60-year-old genetic experiment to domesticate the silver morph of these animals, resulting in a population of them with curly tails and floppy ears. A small but large-eared species of these animals called the fennec is found in the Sahara Desert. For 10 points, name this type of bushy-tailed canid whose common “red” species has the scientific name Vulpes vulpes.
ANSWER: foxes [accept Vulpes before “Vulpes”]

710.
ID: 154865  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 18 - Chicago A + McGill A | Number: 19
TOSSUP: A method for measuring phenomena with low values of this quantity is a spectrally resolved autocorrelation tech known as FROG. In a microscopy technique known as FLIM, photon scattering creates minimal noise as this quantity is measured rather than intensity. FRET efficiency is equal to either “1 minus the ratio of intensities” or this quantity in the presence and absence of an acceptor. Quantum yield is inversely proportional to the “intrinsic” value of this quantity for a process, which is what this quantity equals in the absence of competing processes. The Franck-Condon principle can be explained by vibrational relaxation having a significantly lower value for this quantity than an electronically excited state. The limitations imposed by electronics means that processes with low values for this quantity must be studied in clever ways such as pump-probe spectroscopy. For 10 points, name this quantity that for electronic processes is often on a femtosecond scale.
ANSWER: fluorescence lifetime [or duration; accept timescale; accept answers indicating how long something lasts or takes]

711.
ID: 154878  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Religion | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 19 - Minnesota A | Number: 12
TOSSUP: One work by this man analogizes the heart to a mirror that can reflect the light of God only when polished by “disciplining the soul.” This man wrote that, when cotton is lit on fire, it is God, and not the fire, that burns the cotton. This man, who compiled some of his works during a long stay atop the Golden Gate in Jerusalem, began his search for yaqeen (yah-keen), or complete certainty, to cure his skepticism of sense-data. He included “The Marvels of the Heart” in the third section of a work comprising four sections of ten books each. He argued that jurisprudence should aim to protect the “five necessities.” Sunnis reserve the title “Hujjat al-Islam,” or “proof of Islam,” for this theologian, who explained his turn toward Sufism in his spiritual autobiography Deliverance from Error. He listed 20 heretical propositions and defended Al-Ash’ari’s occasionalism in an attack on the falsafa of Avicenna. For 10 points, name this Islamic mystic who wrote The Revival of the Religious Sciences and The Incoherence of the Philosophers.
ANSWER: Al-Ghazali [Abu Hamid Muhammad ibn Muhammad al-Ghazali; or Algazelus]

712.
ID: 154893  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Trash | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 20 - NYU + Johns Hopkins B | Number: 7
TOSSUP: Jorie Graham’s poem “Fission” juxtaposes news of the JFK assassination with a scene from one of this director’s films, noting that the way a character “lay down on that lawn” was “not at the speed of desire.” The title sequence of that film by this director is a close-up of a man’s hands polishing a girl’s toenails, and was shot by Gilbert Taylor after this man fell out with Oswald Morris. In another of his films, the camera shows people at tea in an 18th-century garden before tracking the protagonist’s gaze by zooming to a lady walking her wheelchair-bound husband in the far background. Inspired by Hogarth paintings, this man used super-fast Zeiss lenses to shoot a candlelit scene in which Redmond meets a countess at a card table. 14-year-old Sue Lyon posed in a bikini on the grass for one of his films, whose posters show Lyon with heart-shaped sunglasses and the question “how did they ever make a movie of” a the Vladimir Nabokov novel it adapts. For 10 points, what director of Lolita and Barry Lyndon also made The Shining?
ANSWER: Stanley Kubrick

713.
ID: 154860  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Mythology | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 18 - Chicago A + McGill A | Number: 14
TOSSUP: According to a meistersong by Michael Beheim, Eberhard of Wirtenberg met a ghostly participant of one version of this event. The traditional Lower Saxon account of this event holds that a nun named Tutosel became an owl after her death, allowing her to participate in this event alongside its leader, Hans von Hackelberg. A Norman woman who loved this event’s central activity so much that she refused to go to heaven was known as Mallt-y-Nos, or Matilda of the Night. That woman appears in the Welsh account of this event alongside the king of the fairy-like Tylwyth Teg (TAHL-with teg), Gwyn ap Nudd (gwin ap nude). Jacob Grimm suggests that an antler-wearing resident of Windsor Forest named Herne (HER-nuh) was the leader of this event, based on his epithet. In Norse traditions, this event was typically led by Odin, which is why it is sometimes called the “Asgard Ride.” This event was said to portend catastrophe and death for its witnesses. For 10 points, name this legendary event in which a throng of supernatural horsemen and hounds pursued a quarry.
ANSWER: Wild Hunt [or Wilde Jagd; accept Ride of Asgard or Asgardsrei before “Asgard”]

714.
ID: 154861  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 18 - Chicago A + McGill A | Number: 15
TOSSUP: Levine developed the bond-charge model to compute nonlinear contributions to this quantity, to which the prefix “hyper” is sometimes attached. The total amount of this quantity for one mole of a substance equals the molar refractivity. One way of calculating this quantity is to set it equal to “three times chi-sub-e” over quantity “chi-sub-e plus three,” all divided by the number density of molecules. This quantity can also be calculated from the index of refraction in the Lorentz-Lorenz equation. Depending on how the Clausius-Mossotti equation is written, that equation relates this quantity to the relative permittivity, or to this quantity’s macroscopic analog, the susceptibility. This microscopic quantity, which has with dimensions of volume in Gaussian units, is symbolized alpha. For 10 points, name this proportionality coefficient between the local electric field and the induced molecular or atomic dipole.
ANSWER: molecular polarizability [or atomic polarizability; or molar polarizability; accept susceptibility before “susceptibility”; accept dielectric constant before “hyper”; do not accept or prompt on “polarization”]

715.
ID: 154858  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 18 - Chicago A + McGill A | Number: 12
TOSSUP: In this cycle’s 31st poem, the speaker says that “a kiss is but a kiss now!” before stating that he and the addressee will sit “and eat our pot of honey on the grave.” Cecil Day-Lewis wrote an introduction for the 1948 edition of this collection and titled his memoir for its line “their hearts held cravings for the buried day.” In its 16th poem, the speaker says that a woman’s cheek was “salt against my kiss” and upsets her by saying “Ah, yes! / Love dies!” That poem from this sequence opens with the line “in our old shipwrecked days there was an hour.” In this cycle’s final poem, a husband and wife are compared to “rapid falcons in a snare, / condemned to do the flitting of the bat.” That couple is compared to sculptured effigies “wishing for the sword that severs all” in a poem from this sequence that opens “by this he knew she wept with waking eyes.” The poet’s wife, Mary Ellen, left him for Henry Wallis, which inspired, for 10 points, what 50-sonnet sequence by George Meredith about his deteriorating marriage?
ANSWER: Modern Love

716.
ID: 154859  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Other
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 18 - Chicago A + McGill A | Number: 13
TOSSUP: In the 1970s, Kazuko Miyamoto used only nails and this material to create a series of so-called “constructions.” Many minimalist sculptures by Fred Sandback use this material to outline basic three-dimensional forms. In Lenore Tawney’s Cloud Series, thousands of separate pieces of this material cascade from the ceiling. David Wojnarowicz’s (voy-nah-ROW-vitch's) short film A Fire in My Belly depicts two halves of bread being connected by this material before he uses it to close his lips. Marcel Duchamp covered the First Papers of Surrealism exhibition using a huge amount of this material, which he dropped onto a canvas in three-meter-long pieces to generate his Three Standard Stoppages. Influenced by images of mathematical models, Barbara Hepworth attached crisscrossing pieces of this material across hollow spaces in her sculptures. A genre of street art involves covering, or “bombing,” urban objects with a namesake type of this material. For 10 points, name this material that, like sinew, is used by Native American artists to make dreamcatchers.
ANSWER: string [or thread; or yarn; or twine; accept yarn bombing]

717.
ID: 154862  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 18 - Chicago A + McGill A | Number: 16
TOSSUP: Reporter Denis Lynch wrote a biography of this man subtitled “The Story of a Grim Generation.” Much of this man’s political acumen was developed as foreman in the Big Six Volunteer Fire Company, which he founded with John J. Reilly as Americus Engine; that company first developed the animal imagery later associated with this man. A plan to erect a nautical statue for this man was scrapped due to backlash, which magazines blamed on his associate Peter “Brains” Sweeny. George Barnard falsely certified this man as a lawyer despite him never attaining a law degree, allowing him to charge fees for “legal services.” This man stated that “Tilden and Fairchild have killed me” on his deathbed in Ludlow Street Jail, where he was incarcerated for stealing 200 million dollars from New York City taxpayers. For 10 points, name this New York senator who garnered his nickname from being the Grand Sachem of Tammany Hall.
ANSWER: Boss Tweed [or William Magear Tweed]

718.
ID: 154855  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Computer Science
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 18 - Chicago A + McGill A | Number: 9
TOSSUP: One form of this technique interpolates a set of data from sparse voxels into an octree. FPGAs were utilized in VIZARD II, a system that implements this technique in calculating volume. An improvement on this technique involves the calculation of the BRDF and was developed by Henrik Jensen. MLT is a version of the Metropolis-Hastings algorithm that uses the bidirectional form of this technique. A version of this technique that makes use of recursion is named for Whitted, and the first algorithm for this technique was developed by Arthur Appel. This technique is much more computationally intense than a related “scan-line” technique. For 10 points, identify this technique from computer graphics, a form of rendering that uses its namesake geometric objects to extrapolate the path of light from pixels in the image.
ANSWER: ray tracing [accept ray trace or other plausible word forms; prompt on “rendering” or “photon mapping” or word forms of either]

719.
ID: 154854  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 18 - Chicago A + McGill A | Number: 8
TOSSUP: One queen of this dynasty sent her advisor Reforce d’Agoult to his defeat at the Battle of Gamenario, after earlier being acquitted of murdering her first husband, Andrew the White, also known as Andrew of Hungary. The final male ruler of this dynasty, who warred against antipope John XXIII ("the 23rd") and forced him to pay 75,000 florins, was Ladislaus the Magnanimous. This house’s founder employed Hugh of Sully as his general to claim the title of King of Albania, while its king Charles the Lame tried to claim Jerusalem at the behest of Pope Nicholas IV. A ruler of this dynasty defeated Conradin at the Battle of Tagliacozzo to bring the Guelphs to power over the Swabian Ghibellines. Thousands of subjects of that ruler from this dynasty were massacred during a rebellion on Easter Vigil in 1282, called the War of the Sicilian Vespers. For 10 points, name this dynasty founded in AD 1266 in Naples by Charles I.
ANSWER: Anjou [accept Angevin or Anjou-Sicily; prompt on “Capet” or “Capetian”; prompt on “Guelfs” before Guelphs”]

720.
ID: 154856  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 18 - Chicago A + McGill A | Number: 10
TOSSUP: This man began the last section of one work worried that he was committing “inexcusable Pythagoreanism” before ending that section with a meditation on sleep. This author claimed that to tell a man that he is “at the end of his nature” is the “heaviest stone that melancholy can throw.” He ended that work “ready to be anything, in the ecstasy of being ever.” Another work by this author considers its subject “artificially, naturally, and mystically.” He focused on the pattern created by five dots arranged in the shape of an X, identifying this “quincunx” (KWIN-kunx) as being common in nature. A work by this author opens by considering “when the general pyre was out, and the last valediction over.” In that work, this author declared that “man is a noble animal, splendid in ashes, and pompous in the grave.” The Garden of Cyrus is a discourse by, for 10 points, what 17th-century English author whose rich prose is exemplified by his Hydriotaphia, Urn-Burial?
ANSWER: Thomas Browne

721.
ID: 154852  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 18 - Chicago A + McGill A | Number: 6
TOSSUP: The speaker of a poem titled for this genre portrays himself as “a lone man talking to myself” imagining “that throng of Selves / that make this nation one body of Prophecy.” A poem titled for this genre declares that “we’re not our skin of grime” and that we are “blessed by our own seed &amp; hairy naked accomplishment-bodies.” The claim that “Carry Nation began the war on Vietnam here” appears in a poem titled for this genre that opens “I’m an old man now, and a lonesome man . . . but not afraid / to speak my lonesomeness in a car” and was based on recordings its author made on a bus trip across the Midwest. A poem titled for this genre begins “I walked on the banks of the tincan banana dock and sat down under the huge shade of a Southern Pacific locomotive” and was inspired by finding the title plant while walking with Jack Kerouac. For 10 points, name this genre that Allen Ginsberg used to title poems about a “Wichita vortex” and a “sunflower.”
ANSWER: sutras [accept “Wichita Vortex Sutra” or “Sunflower Sutra”]

722.
ID: 154853  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Religion | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 18 - Chicago A + McGill A | Number: 7
TOSSUP: Description acceptable. In the Old Testament, the phrase “am segulah” in Exodus 19:5 is thought to support this belief, which is most explicitly stated in Deuteronomy 7:6 and 14:2 by the Hebrew verb “bahar.” Judah Halevy’s treatise Kuzari argued in favor of this belief by positing a “divine essence” unlinked to human behavior. Medieval rabbis attempted to reconcile this belief with a portion of the Talmud that claims that God threatened the Israelites by holding a mountain over their heads. Following Mordecai Kaplan, Reconstructionist Jews hold that this belief is “morally untenable,” and Reconstructionist prayer books substitute in the word “drawn” in an explicit rejection this belief. To distance themselves from this belief, many Diaspora Jews omit the Aleinu’s verse stating that God “has not made us like the nations of the land.” The doctrine of supersession holds that the Christian church assumed, for 10 points, what special status that some Jews believe they hold due to being uniquely singled out by God?
ANSWER: Jews are the chosen people [accept chosenness or answers mentioning forms of the word chosen such as Jews were chosen to be in a covenant with God; prompt on answers less-specific answers such as “Jews have a special covenant with God” or “Jews are the holy people”]

723.
ID: 154857  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 18 - Chicago A + McGill A | Number: 11
TOSSUP: Description acceptable. The inventor best known for developing these things also designed an early sort of fire hydrant and a wooden barricade to defend the river Thames. That creator, Federigo Giambelli, incorporated a clockwork mechanism from a watch into the design of these things and proposed that they be used to help save the population of a certain city from being starved by Alexander Farnese. The misidentification of these things led to a Spanish tactical error at the Battle of Gravelines. One of these vessels called “Fortune” was ineffective, but one called “Hope” successfully killed about 800 soldiers, was heard 80 kilometers away, and caused a tsunami in a nearby river. These vessels never saw widespread use after the Siege of Antwerp due to the large amount of gunpowder required to build them. For 10 points, name these specialized ships designed as floating bombs.
ANSWER: hellburners [accept Antwerp fire or fire ships or any answer that refers to ships that blew up during the Siege of Antwerp in the Eighty Years War; prompt on “ships” or equivalents]

724.
ID: 154863  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature World
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 18 - Chicago A + McGill A | Number: 17
TOSSUP: An anthology titled for this language is prefaced by an essay in which the author describes an old man’s approval of the authenticity of Paul Keen Douglas’s poem “Wuk Hand,” as he reads it over the author’s shoulder on a subway. That anthology titled for this language includes works by R. Zamora Linmark and Oonya Kempadoo, and was edited by Dohra Ahmad. In a novel in this language, the protagonist searches for his mother and wife at refugee camps, only to be arrested for deserting, tied to a Land Rover, and dragged along a road. Chief Birabee rules the fictional community of Dukana in that novel in this language, which chronicles Mene’s tribulations in the Nigerian Civil War. For 10 points, name this deliberately broken and pidgin-inflected version of a certain language, whose name was coined by Ken Saro-Wiwa in the subtitle of Sozaboy.
ANSWER: Rotten English [accept Rotten English: A Literary Anthology or Sozaboy: A Novel in Rotten English; prompt on “English”;or “pidgin English” or “English dialect”]

725.
ID: 154848  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 18 - Chicago A + McGill A | Number: 2
TOSSUP: In 2004, the white paper detailing the sequence of this organism’s genome expressed surprise at the lack of short interspersed nuclear elements, which at the time had been seen in all other vertebrate genomes studied. A gene in the sonic hedgehog pathway first discovered in this organism is commonly used to study the developing limb bud and is called talpid3 (tal-pid-three). Harrison’s axolotl staging model was used to develop a 46-stage model of this organism’s development by Hamburger and Hamilton. This organism is the most common source of IgY ("I-G-Y") antibodies. Studying this organism led scientists to discover that T and B lymphocytes were distinct cell types. The first oncovirus, which was discovered by studying this organism, has a mechanism later shown to be caused by the Src (“sarc”) gene. The bursa of Fabricius was discovered to produce antibodies in this model organism. For 10 points, Gallus gallus is the scientific name of which domesticated bird?
ANSWER: chickens [accept Gallus gallus before “Gallus”; accept colloquial terms such as roosters or hens or cocks]

726.
ID: 154847  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature European
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 18 - Chicago A + McGill A | Number: 1
TOSSUP: An analysis of this literary work closes with the question “what are you thinking about?” to which the text does not reply. This work’s opening contrasts the “Dance of Death” appearance of trees in a mansion’s garden with the “Dance of the Living” at the ball within that mansion. The narrator of this work’s frame story is asked to tell the main story after one character spots a picture of Adonis reclined on a lion’s skin. In that main story of this work, the protagonist is stabbed to death by Cardinal Cicognara’s (sih-kohn-YAH-rah’s) men after kidnapping a singer in a Jomelli opera whom he had fallen instantaneously in love. The “hermeneutic,” the “semic,” and the “proairetic” ("pro-eye"-ret-ic) are three of the five “codes” applied to this novella in a 1970 blow-by-blow structuralist analysis. The title sculptor falls in love with La Zambinella, who turns out to be a castrato rather than a woman, in, for 10 points, what work by Honoré de Balzac, which was analyzed by Roland Barthes in S/Z?
ANSWER: Sarrasine

727.
ID: 154849  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 18 - Chicago A + McGill A | Number: 3
TOSSUP: This thinker related the custom of the Yurok, who would not allow women to contact money out of fear that they would destroy earning potential, in a chapter that traces cultural beliefs about women betraying or weakening in the context of a “system at war with itself.” Along with Aaron Wildavsky, this thinker used the characterization of different societies along the axes of “group” and “grid” to develop the cultural theory of risk. This thinker wrote that a “rule of avoiding anomalous things affirms and strengthens the definitions to which they do not conform” in a chapter claiming that kosher laws were driven by symbolic boundaries; that chapter by this woman is titled “The Abominations of Leviticus.” That discussion drew popular interest to a 1966 book in which this author classifies “dirt” as “matter out of place.” For 10 points, name this British anthropologist who analyzed cleanliness taboos in Purity and Danger.
ANSWER: Mary Douglas

728.
ID: 154845  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 17 - Johns Hopkins A + Florida A | Number: 19
TOSSUP: During a concert in Padova, this composer improvised on themes from an earlier piano piece inspired by the legend of a harp left on the shores of San Francisco Bay and placed on a high point to vibrate freely in the wind. The liner notes for an album by this composer include a poem in which he imagines the Pentagon being “turned on its side and painted purple, yellow, and green.” This composer of The Harp of New Albion performed the parts for electric organ, electric harpsichord, doumbek, and soprano saxophone himself for the 1969 recording of a different piece. This composer used variable resistors to achieve just intonation on a Yamaha organ for his piece Descending Moonshine Dervishes. With La Monte Young, this man studied under kiranic singer Pandit Pran Nath. Another of his pieces consists of 53 “cells,” which performers can repeat at liberty. For 10 points, name this American minimalist composer of A Rainbow in Curved Air and In C.
ANSWER: Terry Riley

729.
ID: 154846  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 17 - Johns Hopkins A + Florida A | Number: 20
TOSSUP: Niobium triselenide is the prototypical example of a compound that exhibits waves of this quantity. Oscillations of this quantity are induced when large regions of the Fermi surface are related to each other by translation under a single wavevector, a condition known as “nesting.” An energy gap in the dispersion relation in one-dimensional crystals occurs at the Peierls transition and results in distortion of the lattice alongside waves of this quantity. Green’s reciprocity theorem relates integrals over the product of this quantity and the scalar potential for different configurations. The electromagnetic continuity equation states that divergence of current density equals the negative time derivative of this quantity. for 10 points, name this quantity that, when divided by epsilon-naught, equals the divergence of the electric field according to Gauss’s law.
ANSWER: charge density [accept charge density waves; accept spin density before “Peierls”; prompt on “charge configuration” or “charge distribution”] ACF Nationals 2018 Editors: Jordan Brownstein, Andrew Hart, Stephen Liu, Aaron Rosenberg, Andrew Wang, Ryan Westbrook Packet by Johns Hopkins A (Robert Chu, Seth Ebner, Eric Bobrow, Noah Stanco) and Florida A (Taylor Harvey, Tracy Mirkin, Jonathen Settle, Alex Shaw) Bonuses

730.
ID: 154850  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 18 - Chicago A + McGill A | Number: 4
TOSSUP: Besides J. M. Vien, this artist was the main teacher of Pierre-Alexandre Wille, whose works in similar genres overshadowed the later works of this artist. Before writing a book on Jacques-Louis David, Anita Brookner’s first book was a study of this artist’s rise and fall. This artist painted a Roman emperor chastising his own son for attempting to assassinate him, but the poor reception of that painting at the 1769 salon caused the Academie to deny him entry into the “history painting” category. This artist died in poverty in a studio in the Louvre under the care of Joseph-Ignace Guillotin. In one painting by this artist, a pewter jug stands above a basin over which the title maid squats as she wrings out some linen. In another painting by this artist, a seated old man with long white hair stretches his arms out to embrace the future son-in-law to whom he has just handed a dowry for the title character. For 10 points, name this French genre painter of The Laundress and The Village Bride.
ANSWER: Jean-Baptiste Greuze (grooz)

731.
ID: 154947  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 23 - Virginia A | Number: 1
TOSSUP: This man’s time in Detroit led him to pen his Leaves from the Notebook of a Tamed Cynic. This author’s Christianity and Crisis broke from the mainline Protestant journal The Christian Century due to its internationalist tendencies. This thinker opposed the KKK-backed mayoral candidate Charles Bowles in a 1925 mayoral election during which he delivered a sermon called “we fair-minded Protestants cannot deny.” This man’s analysis that groups were more likely to behave immorally than individuals, which he first elucidated in his Moral Man and Immoral Society, was cited by Martin Luther King Jr. This Christian realist taught at the Union Theological Seminary in New York for over 30 years. The Nature and Destiny of Man is a book by, for 10 points, what Protestant theologian, who asked for the ability “to accept things I cannot change,” the “courage to change the things I can,” and the “wisdom to know the difference” in his “Serenity Prayer”?
ANSWER: Reinhold Niebuhr [or Karl Paul Reinhold Niebuhr]

732.
ID: 154842  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: History | Subcategory: History British
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 17 - Johns Hopkins A + Florida A | Number: 16
TOSSUP: According to several accounts of this battle, a bright ray of sunshine passed through a man’s body as he was run through with either a lance or a sword. Following this battle, the Archbishop of Canterbury worked with Bleoberis to build the Tower of the Dead, from which the losing commander’s head was displayed from a chain as a warning to traitors until Ganelon removed it while visiting with Charlemagne. On the eve of this battle, a king dreamt of being bound to the wheel of Fortune and was met by the ghost of his nephew, who urged him to make peace with a former ally. A truce that nearly averted this battle was broken when a knight drew his sword to kill a snake. This battle,l which may have taken place at the Salisbury Plain, was fought to dethrone a usurper, the king’s bastard son by his half-sister Morgause. After this battle, that king asked Bedivere three times to cast Excalibur into a lake, before he was taken to Avalon. For 10 points, name this battle at which both Mordred and Arthur were mortally wounded.
ANSWER: Battle of Camlann [or Gwaith Camlan; or Brwydr Camlan; accept Battle of Salisbury Plain before “Salisbury”; prompt on answers describing a “battle between Arthur and Mordred” before “Mordred”]

733.
ID: 154843  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature European
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 17 - Johns Hopkins A + Florida A | Number: 17
TOSSUP: Comic elements in this novel include the character of Grobleben, a snot-nosed workman who appears with a bouquet of roses to give dialect-heavy speeches at events like christenings. A boy in this novel who loves listening to his friend Kai’s stories about magic castles annoys his father by crying while trying to recite “Shepherd’s Sunday Song” and by drawing lines on their official family tree. After visiting a dentist who keeps a parrot named Josephus in his waiting room, a character in this novel collapses in the muddy snow of a street and dies shortly afterwards. This novel often refers to that character as “the senator,” to his father as “the consul,” and to his sister as “Frau Permaneder” even after she leaves her second husband. This novel is set in an unnamed version of its author’s native Lübeck and ends with Hanno’s death by typhoid. For 10 points, name this novel about a merchant family by Thomas Mann.
ANSWER: Buddenbrooks

734.
ID: 154864  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 18 - Chicago A + McGill A | Number: 18
TOSSUP: In one book of these pieces, the composer warns at the end of the ninth piece that “not without toil does one reach the end.” A movement in this genre opens with the left hand playing bouncy chords that move from F major, down to F major seventh, down to F major with added sixth, and back up to F major seventh, in a single measure of 4/2 time. These pieces open the three masses in the Fiori Musicali by Girolamo Frescobaldi, who also composed two books entirely comprised of them. An F-major movement of this type ends the Symphony No. 5 of Charles-Marie Widor. A movement in this genre begins with a mordant on A, rapid scaling in D minor down to a C sharp, and then a quick half-step up to D. That movement in this genre opens the original 1940 version of Disney's Fantasia, in an orchestration by Leopold Stokowski. For 10 points, J. S. Bach’s BWV 565 prefaces a fugue in D minor with what type of virtuosic piece, whose name comes from the Italian for “to touch”?
ANSWER: toccatas [accept Toccata and Fugue in D minor after “fugue”; prompt on “Toccata and Fugue in D minor before “fugue”]

735.
ID: 154844  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 17 - Johns Hopkins A + Florida A | Number: 18
TOSSUP: A man lived in this country with Ellen Varley, the ex-wife of telegraph pioneer C. F. Varley, and her son from that marriage, Cromwell, at a mansion called the “Place of Nightingales,” where he encountered the so-called “eagle of Zinat.” An event in this country led a politician to declare that another country’s influence had “more than once in the past redeemed Continental nations . . . from overwhelming disaster, and even from national extinction.” That event in this country was sparked by calls for help from Hermann Wilburg, the so-called “Endangered German.” The playboy Ion Perdicaris was kidnapped and ransomed in this country by the bandit Raisuli. To resolve an incident in this country, the Mansion House Speech was given as Chancellor of the Exchequer by David Lloyd George, and the SMS Panther was deployed. The Algeciras Conference reconciled a “crisis” in, for 10 points, what country where French, British, and Germans clashed during the Agadir Crisis?
ANSWER: Morocco [accept al-Magrib; or Kingdom of Morocco; or al-Mamlakah al-Maghribiyah]

736.
ID: 154841  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Audiovisual
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 17 - Johns Hopkins A + Florida A | Number: 15
TOSSUP: The composer of this opera dismissed a similar work as full of “powder and minuets,” in contrast to his own Italian passion, despite including a minuet of his own in the second act of this opera. The protagonist of this opera sings the aria “Sola, perduta, abbandonata” as she nears death. Descriptions of one character’s thoughts appear in the score during this opera’s intermezzo, which divides acts 2 and 3 and the protagonist’s journey to Le Havre. This opera’s title character expresses frustration over how boring her current lover is in the aria “In quelle trine morbide.” In act 1 of this opera, the male lead sings of his infatuation in “Donna non vidi mai.” The title character of this opera dies on the outskirts of New Orleans at the side of her lover the Chevalier des Grieux, unlike in a French opera on the same subject by Massenet (mass-eh-nay). For 10 points, name this opera based on a novel by the Abbé Prévost, with music by Giacomo Puccini.
ANSWER: Manon Lescaut (ma-NAW les-KOH) [do not accept or prompt on “Manon”]

737.
ID: 154851  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 18 - Chicago A + McGill A | Number: 5
TOSSUP: Two answers required. A conflict between these two ethnic groups was chronicled in the documentary A Story of People in War and Peace. During that conflict between these groups, the Lachin Corridor became a vital supply line that one side dubbed the “Road of Peace.” Mirza Khazar provided the only daily accounts of a crackdown on one of these ethnic groups by broadcasting on Radio Free Liberty. A conflict between these groups was partly sparked by a pogrom in Sumgait, and a state of emergency dubbed “Black January” was intended to prevent one of these sides from fighting the other. One of these two groups committed the Khojaly (koh-JAH-lee) massacre against civilians of the other side, and shelled that sides newly created capital of Stepanakert. The OSCE Minsk group tries to resolve disputes between these two groups, which agreed to a ceasefire in the Bishkek Protocol. For 10 points, name these two ethnicities whose countries fought over control of the region of Nagorno-Karabakh in the 1990s.
ANSWER: Armenians [accept Armenia] and Azerbaijanis [or Azeris; accept Azerbaijan]

738.
ID: 154894  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 20 - NYU + Johns Hopkins B | Number: 8
TOSSUP: A documentary history of this group consists of two volumes entitled Projectiles for the People and Dancing with Imperialism, and includes a pamphlet released by this group called the “May Paper,” which puts forth their “front concept.” After a leader of this group broke out of prison by scheduling an interview for a fake book signing, a special courtroom was built inside the prison to put their members on trial. Operation Fire Magic successfully freed 86 hostages in Mogadishu that were used as bargaining chips in exchange for the release of members of this group. With the aid of the PFLP, this group hijacked Lufthansa flight 181, and after the failure of that operation, some of its members executed industrialist Hanns Martin Schleyer. This group’s members Gudrun Ensslin and Jan-Carl Raspe died under suspicious circumstances in Stammheim prison during the 1977 “German Autumn.” For 10 points, what German left-wing terrorist group is sometimes known as the “gang” of its two founders?
ANSWER: Red Army Faction [or RAF; or Rote Armee Fraktion; or Baader-Meinhof Gang or other answers mentioning the names Baader and Meinhof]

739.
ID: 154834  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 17 - Johns Hopkins A + Florida A | Number: 8
TOSSUP: This complex contains a pair of symmetrically placed, redox-tyrosine residues labelled YZ (“Y-sub-Z”) and YD (“Y-sub-D”) that are both believed to undergo PCET (“P-C-E-T”) reactions. Those two residues are respectively found on the D1 and D2 subunits which form a heterodimer at the core of this structure. Due to its similarity to a protein in this structure, the iron-stress protein IsiA (“I-S-I-A”) is also named CP43' [C-P-43-prime]. The exact function of cytochrome b559 in this structure is uncertain. The central portion of this structure is believed to cycle through five sets of oxidation states labelled S0 (“S-zero”) through S4 (“S-four”); that portion of this structure is a manganese calcium-oxo cluster. Electrons from this structure are shuttled to plastoquinone which are in turn transported to cytochrome b6f. This complex absorbs light at a maximum of 680 nanometers, while a similar structure’s absorbance contains a 700-nanometer maximum. For 10 points, name this protein complex that contains the oxygen-evolving complex that begins the light reactions of photosynthesis.
ANSWER: photosystem II [or PSII; prompt on “oxygen-evolving complex” or “OEC” before “oxygen”)

740.
ID: 154835  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 17 - Johns Hopkins A + Florida A | Number: 9
TOSSUP: This city was once home to Orcutt Lake Amusement Park, which had the most expensive roller coaster in the United State. The killing of taxi driver Homer Nida in this city led its police to allow an angry mob to lynch Roy Belton. Presbyterian pastor Charles William Kerr gained fame for sheltering refugees in this city, where the business district was built up by J. B. Stradford and O. W. Gurley. Waite Phillips set up his headquarters in this city where his mansion, the Villa Philbrook, is now an art museum. Spartan Aviation was purchased in this city by L.A. resident J. Paul Getty, who started his financial empire in this city. Sarah Page worked as an elevator operator in this city when she accused Dick Rowland of assaulting her, leading to the firebombing and destruction of the Greenwood neighborhood, known as the “Black Wall Street” of this city. For 10 points, name this city, the site of a major 1921 race riot and today the second largest city in Oklahoma.
ANSWER: Tulsa

741.
ID: 154833  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 17 - Johns Hopkins A + Florida A | Number: 7
TOSSUP: This poet wrote “tis verse / that gives immortal youth to mortal maids” in his eight-line poem “Verse.” With George Crabbe and Walt Whitman, this author is one of the 19th-century authors in the “Exhibits” section of Pound’s ABC of Reading, which includes a poem by him that warns “lest Charon, seeing her, forget / that he is old and she a shade.” This author of the epitaph “Dirce” (dur-see) wrote “I strove with none, for none were worth my strife / Nature I loved, and next to Nature, Art,” in a poem sometimes titled “Dying Speech of an Old Philosopher” that he wrote for his 75th birthday. This author wrote “a night of memories and of sighs / I consecrate to thee” in a poem that begins “ah what avails the spectered race.” He included a dialogue between Boccaccio and Petrarch in his Pentameron, part of a larger prose work of similar conversations between historical figures. For 10 points, name this English Romantic poet of “Rose Aylmer” and Imaginary Conversations.
ANSWER: Walter Savage Landor

742.
ID: 154832  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Religion | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 17 - Johns Hopkins A + Florida A | Number: 6
TOSSUP: This saint convinced a man to convert when his mule, which had been starved for three days, ignored the food the heretic held out and instead knelt down before the Eucharist. At the funeral of a moneylender, this saint revealed that the dead man’s heart was not within his body but inside his treasure chest. This saint’s earliest known hagiography is known as the Assidua. After the liberation of his city from Ezzelino da Romano, this man’s body was transferred to a new basilica, upon which his tongue was found to have remained pristine for 32 years after his death. Because a man who stole a psalter from this saint’s monastery returned the book after being frightened by the devil, he is known as the patron saint of lost things. This saint, who is known as the “Hammer of Heretics” for his eloquent preaching, was said to have converted Rimini away from heresy by delivering a sermon to a crowd of fish. For 10 points, name this saint who preached in Padua, and who shares his name with a Desert Father who was tempted by demons in Egypt.
ANSWER: : Saint Anthony of Padua [or Saint Anthony of Lisbon; accept Fernando Martins de Bulhões (either underlined portion)]

743.
ID: 154836  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Trash | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 17 - Johns Hopkins A + Florida A | Number: 10
TOSSUP: Two answers required. Frank Sinatra, who plays a man of English descent, sings a song in which he is the second baseman in a double play unit also consisting of players of these two other ethnicities in the film Take Me Out to the Ball Game. An early talkie film centering on members of these ethnicities, which starred Nancy Carroll and Buddy Rogers and resolves with the birth of twins, was directed by Victor Fleming. Learned Hand wrote that copyright protection does not extend to “stock characters” in a case about a 1926 silent film titled for families of these two ethnicities. A popular song in which the two singers dressed in Egyptian garb and the repeated question of “positively?” was answered with “absolutely!” was named for a duo whose members were of these two ethnicities. Anne Nichols wrote about a mixed couple of these two ethnicities in a play whose title mentions the character Abie (“ABE”-ee) and his “rose.” For 10 points, name these two ethnicities of the Vaudeville performers Mr. Gallagher and Mr. Shean.
ANSWER: Irish Catholic and Jewish [accept forms of the words Irish and Jewish or Jews; accept Ashkenazi in place of “Jewish”]

744.
ID: 154829  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 17 - Johns Hopkins A + Florida A | Number: 3
TOSSUP: Richard Eisler and Jay Skidmore developed a scale to measure stress linked to this quality. Ann Ferguson criticized the role of public elementary schools in defining this quality in black people. In an ethnography of “River High,” C. J. Pascoe argued that this quality is constituted in contrast to the “specter” of an “abject position.” According to a 2015 book by Philip Zimbardo and Nikita Coulombe, digital technology is driving a “crisis” in this quality. This quality is the subject of Jennifer Siebel Newsom’s documentary The Mask You Live In. Raewyn Connell argued that there are multiple types of this quality, rather than the singular, “hegemonic” variant romanticized in the Carl Jung-influenced writing of Robert Bly. Michael Kimmel studies regressive behavior driven by excesses of this quality, which psychologists sometimes call “toxic.” For 10 points, name this gendered set of behaviors constructed in opposition to femininity.
ANSWER: masculinity [accept manliness or manhood; accept descriptive answers such as being a man; prompt on “gender” or “gendered behavior” or similar answers]

745.
ID: 154830  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: History | Subcategory: History British
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 17 - Johns Hopkins A + Florida A | Number: 4
TOSSUP: During the midst of this event, the artist John Leech created a cartoon subtitled “A Design for a Fresco in the New Houses of Parliament,” drawing from an earlier William Heath cartoon showing an elderly lady staring into a microscope. The policies of Edwin Chadwick exacerbated the onset of this incident, which sparked the creation of a Prince Consort flywheel, housed in a colorful Romanesque complex within Crossness. This event, which was alleviated by the designs of Joseph Bazalgette, was satirized in a cartoon in which Michael Faraday gives his card to a monster rising from the water. Many deaths from the Princess Alice disaster were a late consequence of this event, which declined in severity due to construction of the Albert, Victoria, and Chelsea Embankments, and improvements that lowered the level of cholera through sewer construction. For 10 points, name this 1858 event in which a very hot summer caused a foul miasma to descend over London.
ANSWER: The Great Stink of 1858 [accept Big Stink or Big Stench or similar answers indicating a large smell; accept answers mentioning the Thames being stinky or smelly; prompt on less-specific answers or on answers mentioning “London cholera outbreaks” or similar]

746.
ID: 154831  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 17 - Johns Hopkins A + Florida A | Number: 5
TOSSUP: Recreations of this artwork include a statue by Salvador Dalí in Puerto Banús depicting its subject “dressed in lace,” an engraving on the door of the Pisa Cathedral, and a chiaroscuro piece by Willem Janssen. An engraving by Philippe Galle depicting a subject known as “Abada” is similar to this work. An inscription at the top of this work, which notes that its subject is “fast, lively, and cunning” and has the color of a “speckled tortoise,” was largely drawn from a text by Pliny the Elder. This work’s subject was originally given to Afonso de Albuquerque by Sultan Muzaffar Shah II and was later sent as a gift from Manuel I of Portugal to Pope Leo X. The artist never saw the subject of this work, which was the first of its kind in Europe since the 3rd century. Anatomically incorrect armored plates are shown protecting the subject of, for 10 points, what woodcut of a single-horned ungulate by the artist of Melencolia I?
ANSWER: Dürer’s Rhinoceros [accept any answer mentioning Albrecht Dürer and rhinoceros; prompt on partial answers]

747.
ID: 154827  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Computer Science
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 17 - Johns Hopkins A + Florida A | Number: 1
TOSSUP: Leslie Valiant predicted that the runtime of an algorithm that performs this process could be reduced to “big O of n to the 2.38” by converting the input into a Boolean matrix. One algorithm for this task consists of three subroutines: predict a substructure, scan the input, and complete a substructure. That algorithm for this task conventionally represents incomplete substructures with “dotted rules” to indicate the unprocessed elements. Another dynamic programming algorithm that performs this task in “big-O of n cubed” time for an input string of length n is named for Cocke, Younger, and Kasami. This task is often performed on source code using a shift-reduce method, and on natural language by Earley’s algorithm. Based on the order in which they operate, algorithms that perform this task are classified as either “top-down” or “bottom-up.” For 10 points, name this process of converting strings into a syntactically-consistent data structure.
ANSWER: parsing

748.
ID: 154826  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 16 - Oxford + Duke A | Number: 20
TOSSUP: Composer and type of piece required. In one of these pieces, marked largo, the left hand mostly plays repeating eighth-note block chords that chromatically descend, but the left hand drops out for most of measure 12 before returning to a first-inversion tonic triad in measure 13. Another largo example of these pieces opens with a measure of mostly quarter-note block chords starting and ending on C minor, which are slightly modified and transposed down to A-flat major in the following bar. The longest of these pieces is held together by a repeated A flat that is respelled as a G sharp in the middle section, which is in C-sharp minor, while the rest is in D-flat major. Alfred Cortot and Hans von Bülow each created epithets for all of these pieces, such as “Chord” and “Suffocation.” They were inspired by The Well-Tempered Clavier but have key signatures ordered by the circle of fifths. For 10 points, name this set of 24 piano pieces in all major and minor keys, the 15th of which is known as “Raindrop.”
ANSWER: preludes (for solo piano) by Frédéric Chopin [accept Chopin’s Opus 28 or any answer mentioning (piano) preludes and Frédéric François Chopin or Fryderyk Franciszek Chopin] ACF Nationals 2018 Editors: Jordan Brownstein, Andrew Hart, Stephen Liu, Aaron Rosenberg, Andrew Wang, Ryan Westbrook Packet by Oxford (Daoud Jackson, George Charlson, Jacob Robertson, Freddy Potts, Chris Stern) and Duke A (Ryan Humphrey, Gabe Guedes, Lucian Li, Annabelle Yang) Bonuses

749.
ID: 154828  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature World
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 17 - Johns Hopkins A + Florida A | Number: 2
TOSSUP: Laura Healy translated a poem by a poet from this country that states that “we’re human beings, my son, almost birds, / public heroes and secrets.” The speaker of that poem from this country notes that “death didn’t even / close our eyes” after stating, “bombs were falling / over Mexico City / but no one even noticed.” An author from this country wrote The Unknown University and included his poem “Godzilla in Mexico” in the book The Romantic Dogs. A poet from this country says to God “return him to my arms or remove him from the flower” in a poem in which she declares that “I will leave singing my beautiful vengeance.” The earth is described as a “soft cradle / to receive your broken childlike body” in a poem by an poet from this country who wrote “from that frozen niche the men have put you, / I will lower you down to the humble, sunny earth” in a work inspired by the death of Romelio Ureta. For 10 points, name this birthplace of the poet of “Sonnets of Death,” Gabriela Mistral.
ANSWER: Chile

750.
ID: 154837  | Difficulty: Hard College | Category: Philosophy | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2018 ACF Nationals | Round: 17 - Johns Hopkins A + Florida A | Number: 11
TOSSUP: Two traditional responses to a thought experiment about a man who gets this ability are identified with the thinkers “B” and “V” in Gareth Evans’s paper on it. In a book on his theory of this ability “vindicated,” a thinker discussed William Cheselden’s report of a thirteen-year-old’s first experiences with this process. This process’s objects “constitute an universal Language of the Author of Nature” according to a 1709 book that disputes the idea that this process operates via “natural geometry” and argues that this ability is entirely “distinct and heterogeneous” from “tangible extension.” George Berkeley’s “new theory” of this process and Denis Diderot’s letter on people who lack this ability responded to a problem first posed in a letter to John Locke by William Molyneux, which asks whether a person who gained this faculty would be able to distinguish a globe and a cube using it. Plato claimed that this human faculty works through the emission of beams. For 10 points, name this sense that perceives color.
ANSWER: vision [or eyesight; accept obvious equivalents such as visual perception; accept An Essay Towards a New Theory of Vision; prompt on “sense perception” or the “senses”; do not accept or prompt on “blindness” or equivalents]


## BONUSES

1.
ID: 92  | Difficulty:  | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature World
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 22
BONUS: In one essay from this collection, the author suggests that the people of his nation tend to hide their identity behind masks. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this essay collection, whose first work discusses the "pachuco" subculture. Its sections include "The Day of the Dead" and "The Sons of La Malinche."
ANSWER: The Labyrinth of Solitude [or El laberinto de soledad]
[10] This Mexican Nobel Laureate and author of the poem "Sun Stone" wrote The Labyrinth of Solitude.
ANSWER: Octavio Paz Lozano
[10] Paz described the mythology of this nation in his philosophical work The Monkey Grammarian, inspired by the figure of Hanuman. The White Tiger and Hullabaloo in the Guava Orchard are more recent works from here.
ANSWER: India

2.
ID: 108  | Difficulty:  | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 21
BONUS: The document important in the creation of this system identified five "great evils" in society: squalor, ignorance, idleness, want, and disease. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this publicly funded healthcare system in Britain, which was created for England and Wales in a namesake 1946 Act.
ANSWER: National Health Service
[10] This document advocated for the NHS. It was named after an economist who chaired a committee that investigated the state of British social services.
ANSWER: Beveridge Report [or Report of the Inter-Departmental Committee on Social Insurance and Allied Services]
[10] This man opposed the expansion of the welfare state, but is more notable for opposing the Nazis as Prime Minister during the Battle of Britain and most of World War II.
ANSWER: Sir Winston Leonard Spencer-Churchill

3.
ID: 142  | Difficulty:  | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 19
BONUS: The New York Times called an alleged conspiracy against this man a "gigantic hoax" in a 1934 article. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this American president who Smedley Butler claimed to have been the target of the Business Plot orchestrated by pro-fascists. John Nance Garner served as Vice President under him.
ANSWER: Franklin Delano Roosevelt [Accept FDR.]
[10] The business community soured on the 1933 law creating this agency, which was directed by Hugh Samuel Johnson and symbolized with a blue eagle. The "sick chicken" case, Schechter v. US, eliminated it.
ANSWER: National Recovery Administration
[10] The NRA was part of a series of programs known as the New Deal, passed by Roosevelt to alleviate this long national crisis brought about by a massive stock market crash.
ANSWER: the Great Depression

4.
ID: 173  | Difficulty:  | Category: Philosophy | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 17
BONUS: In one work, this philosopher suggested the possibility of an evil demon who is responsible for deceiving his senses. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this author of Meditations on First Philosophy who stated, "cogito ergo sum," or "I think, therefore I am" to prove his existence.
ANSWER: Rene Descartes [or Renatus Cartesius]
[10] Descartes was a major proponent of this philosophical position, which states that the mind and body are two separate entities.
ANSWER:  mind-body dualism [Accept Cartesian dualism.]
[10] This 20th-century British philosopher condemned Cartesian dualism as the doctrine of "the ghost in the machine" in his The Concept of Mind.
ANSWER: Gilbert Ryle

5.
ID: 221  | Difficulty:  | Category: Geography | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 14
BONUS: The Straits of Malacca separate this island from the Malay Peninsula. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this third Indonesian island behind Borneo and New guinea, where the Srivijaya Empire had its capital at the city of Palembang.
ANSWER: Sumatra
[10] This special region of Indonesia forms the northeastern tip of Sumatra near the Nicobar Islands. It was devastated by the 2004 tsunami, which helped bring an end to its GAM independence movement.
ANSWER: Aceh
[10] Situated between Java and Sumatra is the island of Krakatoa, where this type of destructive event involving ash and lava occurred in 1883, causing thousands of deaths and pushing down global temperatures for over a year.
ANSWER: volcanic eruption [Accept any equivalents mentioning volcanos. Accept phreatic eruption.]

6.
ID: 269  | Difficulty:  | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 11
BONUS: Because of the lanthanide contraction, this measure does not differ significantly between second- and third-row transition metals. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this quantity determined by the interplay between shielding and "Z-effective." Isoelectronic anions have a larger value of this measure than neutral atoms, which in turn have a larger value than cations.
ANSWER: atomic radius [Accept ionic radius, van der Waals radius, or covalent radius. Prompt on partial.]
[10] In general, the atomic radius changes in this way across a row and/or down a column in the Periodic Table. An answer such as "increases across a row and increaes down a column" is expected.
ANSWER: decreases across a row and increases down a column [Accept any equivalent statements, including period in place of "row" and group or family in place of "column."]
[10] This other property displays exactly opposite periodic trends to atomic radii. This ability of an element to attract electrons is measured by the Pauling scale.
ANSWER: electronegativity

7.
ID: 287  | Difficulty:  | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 10
BONUS: Genetic research often involves the creation of horrific, unnatural hybrids. For 10 points each.
[10] Genetic vectors can be created from these circular, extrachromosomal DNA molecules. These molecules can be transferred to other organisms by conjugation or transformation.
ANSWER: plasmids
[10] This reporter gene was isolated from jellyfish, in which it interacts with aequorin in the presence of calcium to create light. This protein can be expressed in anything from viruses to mice to make them glow in ultraviolet light.
ANSWER: green fluorescent protein
[10] In this process to study a gene's function, homologous recombination of the gene with a mutant allele creates a gene that goes unexpressed. It is often coupled with loxP-Cre recombination so it only affects certain cells.
ANSWER: gene knockout

8.
ID: 319  | Difficulty:  | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 8
BONUS: In The Lucifer Effect, the man who conducted this experiment noted similarities to Abu Ghraib. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this 1971 experiment in which students assigned as "guards" adapted to their roles more than expected and subjected fellow students to heavy psychological abuse. It took place at a west-coast university.
ANSWER: Stanford prison experiment [Prompt on SPE.]
[10] This author of The Lucifer Effect conducted the Stanford prison experiment.
ANSWER: Philip George Zimbardo
[10] Zimbardo devised an experiment involving abandoned cars to test a criminological theory of this name. It also identifies a parable told by Frederic Bastiat to illustrate why society does not benefit from the economic costs of repairing destroyed property.
ANSWER: broken windows [Prompt on windows.]

9.
ID: 337  | Difficulty:  | Category: Current Events | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 7
BONUS: This practice has been criticized as a form of racial profiling, since over 50% of the people targeted by it are black, even though only a quarter of New York's population is. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this practice in which NYPD officers randomly bother and search civilians. District Court Judge Shira Scheindlin declared it unconstitutional in August 2013.
ANSWER: New York City stop-question-and-frisk program
[10] This politician said his city would appeal Scheindlin's ruling against the stop-and-frisk program. This current mayor of New York City and multi-billionaire instituted a ban on large sodas.
ANSWER: Michael Rubens Bloomberg
[10] This leading candidate to replace Bloomberg as mayor has criticized the stop-and-frisk program for targeting minorities, whom he plans to help with city contract quotas. This progressive featured his biracial son Dante in an ad.
ANSWER: Bill de Blasio [or Warren Wilhelm]

10.
ID: 350  | Difficulty:  | Category: Trash | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 6
BONUS: One of the largest accumulations of this substance was first observed by Charles Moore in 1997 after a sailing race. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this substance, found in large quantities in a namesake "patch" in the northern Pacific Ocean.
ANSWER: garbage [or trash; or plastic, since most of it is plastic]
[10] The Great Pacific Garbage Patch is held in place by the North Pacific one of these large rotating systems of ocean currents.
ANSWER: oceanic gyre
[10] The North Atlantic Gyre, in addition to having its own garbage patch, includes this warm current on its western side. This current starts in Florida and flows up the entirety of the east coast of the United States.
ANSWER: Gulf Stream

11.
ID: 383  | Difficulty:  | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 4
BONUS: Parts of this work were published posthumously as American Hunger and it is divided into the sections "Southern Night" and "The Horror and the Glory." For 10 points each:
[10] Name this autobiography in which the author sets his house on fire. It later describes his flight to Chicago and involvement in the Communist Party.
ANSWER: Black Boy
[10] The author of Black Boy wrote this novel in which Bigger Thomas unintentionally suffocates Mary Dalton and kills Bessie before being imprisoned and put to death.
ANSWER: Native Son
[10] This author of Black Boy and Native Son included the autobiographical piece "The Ethics of Living Jim Crow" in his collection Uncle Tom's Children.
ANSWER: Richard Wright

12.
ID: 399  | Difficulty:  | Category: Mythology | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 3
BONUS: Survivors of these events include Manu, as well as Pyrrha and Deucalion, who created a new human race by throwing rocks over their backs. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these natural disasters used by gods in many mythologies to cleanse the world of humans. Often, they are survived by building large boats.
ANSWER: great floods [Accept equivalents, like deluges.]
[10] In the hope of gaining immortality this man seeks out the flood survivor Utnapishtim. Earlier, he had journeyed with a friend to the Cedar Forest to defeat a monster named Humbaba.
ANSWER: Gilgamesh
[10] In various tales, this trickster god warns Atrahasis and Utnapishtim about Enlil's plan to flood the world. This water god was once punished for trespassing in the sacred garden of Innana.
ANSWER: Ea [or Enki]

13.
ID: 416  | Difficulty:  | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 2
BONUS: This architect's Tjibaou Cultural Centre is designed to reflect a traditional village of the Kanak people of New Caledonia. For 10 points each.
[10] Name this man behind additions to museums like the Art Institute of Chicago and Harvard's Fogg Museum. His best known work was a collaboration with Richard Rogers and has much of its internal piping exposed.
ANSWER: Renzo Piano
[10] Piano is best known for collaborating with Richard Rogers on the Pompidou Centre in this city. Other buildings in this city include Nouvel's Institut du Monde Arabe and the Eiffel Tower.
ANSWER: Paris, France
[10] Charles Garnier's Paris Opera House is crowned by an AimÃ© Millet sculpture depicting this Greek god between music and poetry. A figure being pursued by this god turns into a laurel tree in a Bernini sculpture.
ANSWER: Apollo [Accept Phoebus.]

14.
ID: 418  | Difficulty:  | Category: None | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 1
BONUS: [missing]

15.
ID: 1303  | Difficulty:  | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 24
BONUS: Verdi's A Masked Ball is based on an opera about a ruler with this name. For 10 points each:
[10] Give this name, shared by a man who led the War of Liberation to oust Christian II and a ruler who defeated Tilly and Wallenstein at Breitenfeld before dying at Lutzen during the Thirty Years' War.
ANSWER: Gustavus
[10] A lot of kings named Gustav, including Gustavus Adolphus, came from the Vasa dynasty that ruled this country and Poland. Its other rulers include Charles XII, who lost the Great Northern War to Peter the Great.
ANSWER:  Kingdom of Sweden [Accept Konungariket Sverige or Svenska Riket.]
[10] After an invasion of Livonia by this Russian ruler, Sweden formed a coalition with Poland and Lithuania to drive off the Russian incursion. Sweden was given modern-day Estonia from Livonia in the ensuing peace.
ANSWER: Ivan IV Vasilyevich [Accept Ivan the Terrible or Ivan Grozny.]

16.
ID: 1304  | Difficulty:  | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 23
BONUS: This government-funded effort had the same goal as the J. Craig Venter-led Celera Corporation. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this biological effort, which in June 2000 published a rough draft of a sequence of more than 3 billion base pairs.
ANSWER: Human Genome Project
[10] Since chain-termination DNA sequencing can only process a few hundred base pairs per run, the Human Genome Project used this strategy of breaking the genome up and then reassembling it to recreate the full sequence.
ANSWER: shotgun method [or shotgun sequencing]
[10] This man headed the incipient Human Genome Project in the early 1990s, but he may be better known for proposing the structure of DNA in 1953 along with Francis Crick.
ANSWER: James Watson

17.
ID: 1305  | Difficulty:  | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 20
BONUS: The loss of this quantity due to friction can be calculated using the Darcy-Weisbach equation. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this quantity, equal to a fluid's energy per unit weight. It is often reported as the height of an equivalent static column of fluid, and it has components due to pressure, elevation, and velocity.
ANSWER: hydraulic head [or piezometric head]
[10] This important principle of fluid dynamics can be written in terms of head by dividing by the acceleration due to gravity. It states that faster-moving fluids exert less pressure than slower-moving ones.
ANSWER: Bernoulli's principle
[10] Bernoulli's principle only applies when this quantity is zero. This quantity is independent of applied stress in Newtonian fluids, and the ratio of its dynamic and kinetic forms equals the fluid's density.
ANSWER: viscosity

18.
ID: 1306  | Difficulty:  | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 16
BONUS: This character is always praised at the end of the Two Minutes Hate. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this character who is "always watching you" and is opposed by Emmanuel Goldstein. This enigmatic dictator is often used as a symbol for excessive or abusive government power.
ANSWER: Big Brother
[10] Big Brother appears in this novel about Winston Smith by George Orwell, which details the dystopian society of Oceania ruled by the Party. Winston falls in love with Julia and is later tortured by O'Brien.
ANSWER: Nineteen Eighty-Four
[10] George Orwell coined this term, similar to cognitive dissonance, in Nineteen Eighty-Four. It describes the simultaneous acceptance of two contradictory beliefs.
ANSWER: doublethink

19.
ID: 1307  | Difficulty:  | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 15
BONUS: In the lower-left corner of this painting, Nicolas Poussin appears in black, pointing at the title figure. For 10 points each.
[10] Name this painting, whose title figure is crowned by the winged Universe as he sits on a pedestal in front of a Greek temple. Other figures in this painting include Dante, Shakespeare, Euripides and Socrates.
ANSWER: The Apotheosis of Homer [or L'ApothÃ©ose d'HomÃ¨re]
[10] The Apotheosis of Homer was painted by this French Neoclassical artist of The ValpinÃ§on Bather. He depicted exotic nude women in The Turkish Bath and La Grande Odalisque.
ANSWER: Jean-Auguste-Dominique Ingres
[10] Ingres painted the death of this other artist, whose works included the Madonna of the Carnation and Madonna Litta. He is better known for painting a woman with an enigmatic smile in Mona Lisa.
ANSWER: Leonardo di Ser Piero da Vinci [Accept either underlined portion.]

20.
ID: 1308  | Difficulty:  | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature European
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 13
BONUS: Name some languages used to write epic poetry, for 10 points each:
[10] This language was used to write the early Christian poem Dream of the Rood, but is better known for being the language used by the Pearl Poet.
ANSWER: Old English [Prompt on English. Do not accept or prompt on Middle English or other varieties.]
[10] This language was used to write an epic in which the knight Tancred falls in love with Clorinda, Jerusalem Delivered, as well as two poems by Ludovico Ariosto in which Orlando is "In Love" and "Enraged."
ANSWER: Italian [or Italiano]
[10] This non-European language was used to write the Story of Heraclius, a tale of conflict between the Byzantines and various Muslim powers. A writer who uses this language and Kikuyu wrote the essay, Decolonizing the Mind.
ANSWER: Swahili [or Kiswahili]

21.
ID: 1309  | Difficulty:  | Category: Religion | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 12
BONUS: This action is performed in cycles called rakaʿāt. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this action, which is referred to as namaz in Persian. It is sometimes performed with a sutrah and is done while facing the Qibla.
ANSWER: Islamic prayer [or salat]
[10] People who don't pray this many times per day are sinners according to non-Hanbali schools of thought, but disbelievers according to the Hanbali school. There are this many Pillars of Islam.
ANSWER: five [Accept khamsa.]
[10] Partial varieties of this action, which may be done with sand if necessary, must be performed before salat. Another form of this action in Islam is ghusl.
ANSWER: ritual ablution [Accept purification. Prompt on "washing" or similar things.]

22.
ID: 1310  | Difficulty:  | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 9
BONUS: The rise of this state coincided with the decline of the Kushan and Shaka kingdoms. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Indian empire of the 4th-6th century CE supposedly founded by Maharaja Sri. It received tribute from numerous southern states and created several iron pillars.
ANSWER: Gupta Empire
[10] The Gupta Empire faced invasion by the Hephthalites, also known as the "White" branch of these people. These people were led on various European adventures by a guy named Attila.
ANSWER: Huns [or Hunas]
[10] Chandragupta I of the Gupta Empire should not be confused with Chandragupta Maurya, who sent a bunch of elephants to help this Macedonian general win at the Battle of Ipsus against Antigonus.
ANSWER: Seleucus I Nicator

23.
ID: 1311  | Difficulty:  | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 5
BONUS: These compositions usually begin with a Greek Kyrie, but consist mostly of Latin text. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these choral compositions, meant to be played during the namesake Catholic worship services. Examples of these compositions designed for funerals are known as requiems.
ANSWER: Latin masses
[10] One of the most famous masses is this one, composed by Giovanni Palestrina in honor of a man who only reigned for three weeks. It legendarily convinced the Council of Trent not to ban polyphonic music.
ANSWER: Pope Marcellus Mass [or Missa Papae Marcelli]
[10] Leos Janacek, a composer of this ethnicity, used Old Slavonic text in his 1926 Glagolitic Mass. Antonin Dvorak, the composer of Slavonic Dances, was also of this ethnicity.
ANSWER: Czech

24.
ID: 2297  | Difficulty:  | Category: None | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 1
BONUS: [missing]

25.
ID: 3604  | Difficulty:  | Category: None | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 1
BONUS: [missing]

26.
ID: 3605  | Difficulty:  | Category: Mythology | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 2
BONUS: According to the mythology of this civilization, most of humanity was wiped out in a great flood called Unu Pachakuti. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Western Hemisphere civilization that worshipped the sun god Inti and the fertility and earthquake goddess Pachamama.
ANSWER: Inca Empire
[10] After performing his work, the Inca creator god Viracocha disappeared westward from Peru across this large body of water. Perhaps for that reason, the raft Kon-Tiki takes its name from an alternate name for Viracocha.
ANSWER: Pacific Ocean
[10] Coniraya was the Incan god of this domain. The Aztec god of this domain, Tecciztecatl, had a rabbit thrown at his face by Tlaloc. Chandra and Soma were also Hindu deities of this domain, as was Tsukuyomi in Japan.
ANSWER: the moon

27.
ID: 3606  | Difficulty:  | Category: None | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 3
BONUS: [missing]

28.
ID: 3607  | Difficulty:  | Category: None | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 4
BONUS: [missing]

29.
ID: 3608  | Difficulty:  | Category: Religion | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 5
BONUS: The Kol Nidre is recited before evening service on this holiday. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Day of Atonement, the holiest day of the year in Judaism.
ANSWER: Yom Kippur
[10] The Ne'ilah service concluding Yom Kippur ends with the blowing of this instrument made from a ram's horn. It's also used on Rosh Hashanah.
ANSWER: shofar
[10] This prayer is also spoken at the end of the Ne'ilah. This prayer, which literally translates as "Hear, O Israel," is traditionally the most important one in Judaism, and is often spoken by Orthodox Jews before they go to sleep.
ANSWER: Shema Yisrael [or the Sh'ma]

30.
ID: 3609  | Difficulty:  | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 6
BONUS: Their demands included universal male suffrage and payment for members of Parliament. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this working-class reform movement in England, led by Feargus O'Connor and others. It rallied around a namesake document written by a committee led by William Lovett.
ANSWER: Chartist movement [or Chartism; also accept People's Charter of 1838]
[10] The Chartists published a newspaper named for a star in this cardinal direction. The island of Great Britain borders a sea named for this direction.
ANSWER: north [accept The Northern Star or North Sea]
[10] Chartists marched on Westgate Hotel to free fellow imprisoned Chartists in this uprising named for the town in which it took place. The Rhode Island town of this name houses Gilded Age mansions such as The Breakers.
ANSWER: Newport [or Newport, Monmouthshire; or Newport, Rhode Island]

31.
ID: 3610  | Difficulty:  | Category: None | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 7
BONUS: [missing]

32.
ID: 3611  | Difficulty:  | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 8
BONUS: With his namesake Quartet, one player of this instrument released a song named for its time signature, "Take Five," on the album Time Out. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this string-percussion instrument played by Dave Brubeck, as well as by the blind Art Tatum and the composer of "Round Midnight," Thelonious Monk.
ANSWER: jazz piano
[10] This other jazz pianist, a frequent collaborator with Billy Strayhorn, had several stints performing at the Cotton Club. His orchestra's hits include "Mood Indigo" and "It Don't Mean a Thing (If It Ain't Got that Swing)."
ANSWER: Edward Kennedy "Duke" Ellington
[10] Ellington worked with Strayhorn on this signature hit of the Duke Ellington Orchestra. This song's title refers to a branch of the New York Subway that will get you to "Sugar Hill way up in Harlem."
ANSWER: "Take the "A" Train"

33.
ID: 3612  | Difficulty:  | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 9
BONUS: The Brillouin zones of these structures can be constructed using Wigner-Seitz cells. For 10 points each:
[10] Give this term for the structures in which atoms or molecules are arranged in a periodic three-dimensional array. Ice and rock salt both take on this type of structure.
ANSWER: crystals
[10] A crystalline scattering condition named for this man sets the change in a wavevector equal to one of the crystal's reciprocal lattice vectors or, equivalently, sets 2 d sin theta equal to an integer multiple of wavelength.
ANSWER: William Lawrence Bragg
[10] Wavefunctions in a crystal can be found via Bloch's theorem, which says that the wavefunction in this kind of regularly repeating potential can be decomposed into a complex exponential and a function of this type.
ANSWER: periodic [accept word forms]

34.
ID: 3613  | Difficulty:  | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 10
BONUS: Gloria's suicide after being dumped by Alton Scales leads a Brooklyn intellectual to resist local politician Wally O'Hara in one play by this author. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this playwright of The Sign in Sidney Brustein's Window. Joseph Asagai courts a woman he terms "alaiyo" in another of her plays, in which Karl Lindner represents a stubborn neighborhood association.
ANSWER: Lorraine Hansberry
[10] In this play, Hansberry's most famous, the Younger family refuses to be bought out by a financial offer intended to deter them from moving into a white neighborhood.
ANSWER: A Raisin in the Sun
[10] The title of A Raisin in the Sun is based on a Langston Hughes poem that wonders what would happen if one of these things were "deferred," and suggests that it might "fester like a sore" or "explode."
ANSWER: a dream

35.
ID: 3614  | Difficulty:  | Category: Geography | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 11
BONUS: These subdivisions of a larger country, which are smaller than provinces, were partly ruled from "plantations" beginning in the 16th century. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these administrative divisions that include Tipperary, Kilkenny, Limerick, and Cork.
ANSWER: counties [accept word forms; or contaetha; or coonties]
[10] Those counties comprise this island country, once a colony of Great Britain, with capital Dublin.
ANSWER: Ireland
[10] This southernmost province of Ireland, which borders Connacht and Leinster to the north, contains the cities of Cork, Waterford, and Limerick.
ANSWER: Munster

36.
ID: 3615  | Difficulty:  | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Math
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 12
BONUS:  In abstract algebra, the isomorphism theorems are usually stated with regards to two of these structures related by a homomorphism. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify these structures, which consist of a set, an invertible and associative law of composition on that set, and an identity element for the law of composition.
ANSWER: groups
[10] Abelian groups are further endowed with the fact that the law of composition has this property. When this property holds, the order of operands is irrelevant, such as when a + b = b + a.
ANSWER: commutative property
[10] One example of an abelian group is a group of this type, which consists of the positive and negative powers of a single generating element x. The smallest number n such that x to the n equals 1 is called the order of this group.
ANSWER: cyclic group

37.
ID: 3616  | Difficulty:  | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature European
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 13
BONUS: Sonya tells one character in this play about her love for Astrov, but Astrov kisses that character instead. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this play about a miserable middle-aged man who manages the rural estate of his brother-in-law, Serebryakov. He tries to seduce Serebryakov's young wife, Yelena, but notices Astrov doing the same thing.
ANSWER: Uncle Vanya [or Dyadya Vanya]
[10] Uncle Vanya is a play by this Russian author. Trepilev's unrequited love for Nina causes him to commit suicide after killing the title bird of this author's play The Seagull.
ANSWER: Anton Chekhov
[10] In this play by Chekhov, the servant Firs dies in an abandoned house after Lopakhin buys Madame Ranevskaya's estate, which includes a fruit-filled forest area.
ANSWER: The Cherry Orchard [or Vishnevyi sad]

38.
ID: 3617  | Difficulty:  | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 14
BONUS: These bonds form parallel to the bonding axis, and two of them are found in a covalent triple bond. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these bonds that together with sigma bonds make up double bonds.
ANSWER: pi bonds
[10] Pi bonds result from the overlap of the p type of these regions, where the probability of finding an electron is high. Each one can hold a maximum of two electrons. 
ANSWER: atomic orbitals
[10] This reaction mechanism proceeds by the interaction of a Lewis base with the sigma-star antibonding orbital on the substrate. In this mechanism, the leaving group leaves in a concerted, bimolecular transition state.
ANSWER: SN2 [pr. "S-N-2"; or bimolecular nucleophilic substitution; prompt on partial answer, as they must have some combination of "s" or "substitution"; "n" or "nucleophile"; and "2" or "bimolecular"]

39.
ID: 3618  | Difficulty:  | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 15
BONUS: This man visited England in order to give a performance for Victoria's jubilee, and Sitting Bull toured with him for a while. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this man who led a series of entertaining cowboy-themed Wild West shows in the late 19th century.
ANSWER: William Frederick "Buffalo Bill" Cody [accept either underlined part]
[10] One of the headliners at the Wild West shows was this sharpshooter who gained fame for her ability to shoot targeted holes in a playing card. An Irving Berlin musical asks this woman to "get your gun."
ANSWER: Annie Oakley [or Phoebe Ann Moses]
[10] Buffalo Bill made a fortune by setting up a Wild West show adjacent to this 1893 event in Chicago. The Ferris Wheel debuted at this event.
ANSWER: World's Columbian Exposition [or the 1893 World's Fair; or the Chicago World's Fair]

40.
ID: 3620  | Difficulty:  | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 17
BONUS: Answer some questions about historical firsts of the Soviet space program, for 10 points each:
[10] The 1957 launch of this object, the first artificial satellite, is generally regarded as the beginning of the Space Race between the US and USSR.
ANSWER: Sputnik1
[10] This Soviet project of manned space flights was spearheaded by Sergei Korolev. The first of these missions on an R-7 model completed the first manned orbit of Earth with Yuri Gagarin, one of the Vanguard Six cosmonauts.
ANSWER: Vostok
[10] The launch of Sputnik 2 saw this Soviet space dog become the first animal to orbit the earth. She unfortunately died a few hours into the mission from overheating.
ANSWER: Laika

41.
ID: 3621  | Difficulty:  | Category: Trash | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 18
BONUS: Name some people who didn't win the 2013 US Open, for 10 points each:
[10] Chief among them is this Serbian player, who won an unnecessarily-long 54-shot rally in the finals before falling to Rafael Nadal in four sets. He's the current World No. 2.
ANSWER: Novak Djokovic [pronounced joke-uh-vitch]
[10] This men's doubles team missed out on the opportunity to win the Grand Slam in 2013, losing to Leander Paes and Radek Stepanek in the semifinals.
ANSWER: the Bryan brothers [or the Bryans; or Bob and Mike Bryan]
[10] Perhaps least surprisingly, this American former World No. 4 retired after losing to Ivo Karlovic. This player was essentially cheated out of a medal by Chile's Fernando Gonzalez at the 2008 Beijing Olympics.
ANSWER: James Blake

42.
ID: 3622  | Difficulty:  | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 19
BONUS: After writing the score for a movie about Robert Scott's expedition, this composer was inspired to write Sinfonia antartica. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this composer who based The Lark Ascending on a George Meredith poem. His works inspired by folk themes include Fantasia on "Greensleeves" and Fantasia on a Theme of Thomas Tallis.
ANSWER: Ralph Vaughan Williams [do not accept incomplete last name]
[10] Ralph Vaughan Williams and Thomas Tallis were composers from this nation, where Handel's Zadok the Priest has been played at every coronation ceremony since the one for George II.
ANSWER: United Kingdom [accept Great Britain or England]
[10] This other British composer frequently collaborated with Edith Sitwell in his early career. He is best known for a piece based on the Book of Daniel, Belshazzar's Feast.
ANSWER: William Walton

43.
ID: 3623  | Difficulty:  | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 20
BONUS: Environmental cues which help synchronize these cycles are called zeitgebers. For 10 points each:
[10] Give this term for the biological temporal rhythm which, in humans and many other organisms, is a 24-hour oscillation. It determines at what time of day someone is most alert, has the highest body temperature, etc.
ANSWER: circadian rhythms
[10] The levels of this drowsiness-inducing hormone fluctuates in a daily cycle, helping regulate the sleep-wake cycle. It's produced in the pineal gland and its secretion is a good way of measuring the circadian rhythms.
ANSWER: melatonin
[10] During the night, melatonin regulates the action of this other hormone, known as a hunger suppressant. This was the first protein hormone discovered to be derived from adipose tissue.
ANSWER: leptin

44.
ID: 3624  | Difficulty:  | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 21
BONUS: The most famous leader of these people united many of the Nguni into his kingdom. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify these southern African tribal people led by Cetshwayo during their war against the British, which saw the Battles of Isandlwana and Rorke's Drift.
ANSWER: Zulu people
[10] This unifier and greatest ruler of the Zulu was originally a vassal under Dingiswayo. He battled the Ndwandwe state and instituted conscripted regiments called amabutho.
ANSWER: Shaka kaSenzangakhona [or Shaka Zulu]
[10] Shaka's military reforms also included an invention of a new melee broad-bladed version of the assegai, which was one of these weapons.
ANSWER: throwing spears

45.
ID: 3625  | Difficulty:  | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 22
BONUS: The French expeditionary forces at this incident were led by Jean-Baptiste Marchand. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this 1898 diplomatic crisis in which France and Britain vied for control of the title location in East Africa, which the French hoped would push Britain out of the region.
ANSWER: Fashoda Incident [or Fashoda Crisis]
[10] The British flotilla that reached Fashoda was led by this man who had just won the Battle of Omdurman. He was War Secretary during World War I and his face appeared with the words "Wants You" on recruitment posters.
ANSWER: Horatio Herbert Kitchener, 1st Earl Kitchener
[10] The Battle of Omdurman took place not far from Khartoum in this modern-day nation.
ANSWER: Sudan

46.
ID: 3626  | Difficulty:  | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature European
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 23
BONUS: This character's interactions with a blind poet called "the Shaper" are examined in a novel by John Gardner. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this beast whose mother is killed with the sword Unferth. He himself is also killed by the same hero when he is mortally wounded after his arm is ripped off.
ANSWER: Grendel
[10] Grendel and his mother are killed by this warrior, who titles an Old English epic.
ANSWER: Beowulf
[10] Grendel's repeated invasions of Heorot torment this king of the Danes. His best warrior, Aeschere, is killed by Grendel's mother when she attacks Heorot in revenge for her son's death.
ANSWER: Hrothgar

47.
ID: 3627  | Difficulty:  | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 24
BONUS: It proposes that species remain in stasis for long periods of time, before rapidly evolving. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this theory that superseded phyletic gradualism as a model for the creation of new species over time.
ANSWER: punctuated equilibrium
[10] This evolutionary biologist proposed the theory of punctuated equilibrium with Niles Eldredge. He attacked intelligence tests in The Mismeasure of Man, and his essays were collected in books such as The Panda's Thumb.
ANSWER: Stephen Jay Gould
[10] Much of Gould's experimental research was done on these gastropods, in particular the Bermudan Poecilozonites and the West Indian Cerion genuses, which display unusual geographic diversity.
ANSWER: land snails

48.
ID: 4977  | Difficulty:  | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 1
BONUS: [missing]

49.
ID: 5190  | Difficulty:  | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 1
BONUS: The first movements of 18th and 19th century symphonies were composed in this form. For 10 points each:
[10] ] Movements in sonata form sometimes end with one of these sections, whose name comes from the Italian for "tail." Beethoven often composed long ones for the endings of his symphonies' first movements.
ANSWER: CODA
[10]  Name this musical form, which features an exposition, development, and recapitulation
ANSWER: SONATA
[10]  Beethoven composed an especially long coda for the first movement of this symphony in E flat major. He originally planned to dedicate it to Napoleon, but tore up the dedication when Napoleon crowned himself emperor
ANSWER: EROICA

50.
ID: 5191  | Difficulty:  | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 2
BONUS:  I'm shining a flashlight through a circular hole. Answer some questions about the phenomenon that I see, for 10 points each
[10] ] Identify this phenomenon in which light bends around the edges of a hole or aperture. Gratings that take advantage of this phenomenon are used in holography and monochromators.
ANSWER: DIFFRACTION
[10]  Diffraction through a circular aperture creates a series of concentric rings around a central disk. That disk is named for this British physicist.
ANSWER: AIRY
[10]  The angle of the first minimum relative to the axis in the diffraction pattern of a circular aperture is equal to the wavelength divided by the diameter times this constant. One decimal place is acceptable.
ANSWER: 1.2

51.
ID: 5193  | Difficulty:  | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 7
BONUS: The first movements of 18th and 19th century symphonies were composed in this form. For 10 points each:
[10]  Movements in sonata form sometimes end with one of these sections, whose name comes from the Italian for "tail." Beethoven often composed long ones for the endings of his symphonies' first movements.
ANSWER: CODA
[10]  Name this musical form, which features an exposition, development, and recapitulation
ANSWER: SONATA
[10] ] Beethoven composed an especially long coda for the first movement of this symphony in E flat major. He originally planned to dedicate it to Napoleon, but tore up the dedication when Napoleon crowned himself emperor
ANSWER: EROICA

52.
ID: 5194  | Difficulty:  | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 8
BONUS:  I'm shining a flashlight through a circular hole. Answer some questions about the phenomenon that I see, for 10 points each:
[10] ] Identify this phenomenon in which light bends around the edges of a hole or aperture. Gratings that take advantage of this phenomenon are used in holography and monochromators.
ANSWER: DIFFRACTION
[10]  Diffraction through a circular aperture creates a series of concentric rings around a central disk. That disk is named for this British physicist.
ANSWER: AIRY
[10] The angle of the first minimum relative to the axis in the diffraction pattern of a circular aperture is equal to the wavelength divided by the diameter times this constant. One decimal place is acceptable.
ANSWER: 1.2

53.
ID: 5196  | Difficulty:  | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 10
BONUS:  For 10 points each, name these terms from ballet:
[10] ] In this type of leap, a ballet dancer transfers her weight from one leg to the other. In the "grand" type of this leap, a dancer performs a split in mid-air
ANSWER: JETE
[10]  Coming from the French for "to whirl," this move is performed by turning in place on one leg, with the other leg raised in the air
ANSWER: PIROUETTE
[10]  Ballerinas usually perform pirouettes using this technique, in which a dancer supports her weight with her toes. It requires special shoes with a flattened box that provide extra toe support.
ANSWER: EN POINTE

54.
ID: 5197  | Difficulty:  | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 11
BONUS:  Several of this goddess's children, the Empusae, were notorious for being succubi. For 10 points each:
[10]  Name this goddess whose three aspects represent the earth, the moon, and the sea. She is best known for her associations with witchcraft and the crossroads.
ANSWER: HECATE
[10] ] In some stories, Hecate is instructed by this agriculture goddess to watch over her daughter Persephone
ANSWER: DEMETER
[10] ] Cult magicians often sacrificed this many oxen to Hecate. This is the number of hands possessed by Briareu
ANSWER: 100

55.
ID: 5198  | Difficulty:  | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 12
BONUS:  The book Red Design for the Americas claimed that this man's government was filled with Communists. For 10 points each:
[10]  Arbenz had planned to expropriate lands belonging to this banana-trading company, known as "the octopus" for its long reach into Central American affairs in the early twentieth century.
ANSWER: UNITED FRUIT
[10]  Name this leader, whose "Decree 900" attacked "semi-feudal" practices and called for the confiscation of uncultivated plantation land.
ANSWER: ARBENZ
[10] Arbenz was overthrown by an American-backed coup in this nation, also the home of Rigoberta Menchu.
ANSWER: GUATEMALA

56.
ID: 5199  | Difficulty:  | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 13
BONUS:  Silenus attempts to scam Polyphemus out of some wine in this man's Cyclops, the only fully extant satyr play. For 10 points each:
[10]  Identify this ancient Greek tragedian who depicted the bloody death of Pentheus in his play Bacchae. His other works include the early tragicomedy Alcestis and The Trojan Women.
ANSWER: EURIPIDES
[10] ] This title character of two Euripides plays is spirited away from a sacrificial altar by Artemis, after which she unhappily sacrifices foreigners for King Thoas. Eventually, she is rescued by her brother Orestes.
ANSWER: IPHIGENIA
[10]  Athena appears at the end of this Euripides play to convince Xuthus that the title character, who was actually fathered on Creusa by Apollo and raised in Delphi, is his real son.
ANSWER: ION

57.
ID: 5200  | Difficulty:  | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Computer Science
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 14
BONUS:  This mathematician's Laws of Thought essentially founded the relationship between logic and probability used in computers. For 10 points each:
[10] ] This modern system of logic differs from Boole's in that truth values can have any probability between zero and one, making it a form of "many-valued" logic
ANSWER: FUZZY
[10]  Identify this nineteenth-century mathematician who described a system of truth functions like conjunction, disjunction and negation that are now named for him. His namesake algebra uses commands like NOT and AND.
ANSWER: BOOLE
[10]  This Boolean function returns true in each of the following cases: A and B are true; A is true, B is false; A is false, B is true
ANSWER: OR

58.
ID: 5201  | Difficulty:  | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 15
BONUS: Answer these questions about some figuratively ferrous economic theories, for 10 points each:
[10]  Talcott Parsons is responsible for the translation of this term, a central concept in Weber's Protestant Ethic, which describes this concept as a product of bureaucracy that freezes those in capitalist systems within the constraints of rationality
ANSWER: IRON CAGE
[10]  Robert Michels' 1911 tract Political Parties posits an "Iron Law" on the inevitable rise of this kind of shared-power system. Plato's Republic places this power system above democracy and tyranny, and describes a version of it in which power is based on wealth as "plutarchy.
ANSWER: OLIGARCHY
[10] The concept of the "Iron Law of Wages" is usually attributed either to Ferdinand Lassalle or to this early English economist, who wrote about the labor theory of value and comparative advantage in Principles of Political Economy
ANSWER: RICARDO

59.
ID: 5202  | Difficulty:  | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 16
BONUS:  Saint James blesses a man on his way to his martyrdom in a work by this artist shown from a worm's eye perspective that was destroyed during World War II. For 10 points each:
[10]  Andrea Mantegna produced a heavily foreshortened painting of the dead body of this Biblical figure that illustrated his Holy Wounds. He can be seen resting in Mantegna's Madonna with Sleeping Child
ANSWER: JESUS
[10]  Identify this Renaissance artist whose ceiling oculus in the Palazzo Ducale in Mantua depicts several cherubs sitting on the roof beneath a blue sky.
ANSWER: MANTEGNA
[10]  Mantegna created multiple scenes of this figure, often shown being martyred while tied up near a column. El Greco painted this saint tied up to a tree with an arrow piercing his ribs.
ANSWER: SEBASTIAN

60.
ID: 5203  | Difficulty:  | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 17
BONUS: This element's allotropes include the sheet-like graphite and the face-centered cubic diamond. For 10 points each:
[10]  Identify this element, which forms the backbone of all organic compounds. Its third allotrope is fullerene
ANSWER: CARBON
[10]  This type of fullerene comes in armchair, zigzag, and chiral configurations. These cylindrical molecules form long ropes spontaneously with incredible tensile strength.
ANSWER: NANOTUBES
[10]  Cutting open a carbon nanotube lengthwise would result in this structure, which is a single-atom thick sheet of carbon atoms arranged in a hexagonal lattice.
ANSWER: GRAPHENE

61.
ID: 5204  | Difficulty:  | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 18
BONUS:  One side of this battle left from Fort Cumberland but decided to advance through Virginia rather than take a direct route through Pennsylvania. For 10 points each:
[10]  The Jumonville Affair and battles at Fort Necessity and Fort Duquesne are all events of what war, in which the British demonstrated supremacy in North America while fighting the Seven Years' War in Europe?
ANSWER: FRENCH AND INDIAN
[10] ] Name this battle, which saw an expedition from Fort Duquesne end disastrously for the British with the death of Edward Braddock
ANSWER: MONONGAHELA
[10]  This aide to Braddock brought back the survivors to Colonel Dunbar. He earlier attacked Jumonville and surrendered at Fort Necessity
ANSWER: WASHINGTON

62.
ID: 5205  | Difficulty:  | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 19
BONUS: The protagonist goes to the mountains to befriend the clan of Highlanders led by Chieftain Fergus. For 10 points each:
[10]  Name this novel whose title character fights for the Jacobite forces at the Battle of Prestonpans and struggles to choose between marrying Rose Bradwardine or Flora Mac-Ivor.
ANSWER: WAVERLEY
[10]  This Scottish author of Waverley wrote many historical novels, including Rob Roy and Ivanhoe.
ANSWER: SCOTT
[10]  Ivanhoe saves this daughter of Isaac of York from being burned as a witch by a Templar named Brian de Bois-Guilbert.
ANSWER: REBECCA

63.
ID: 5206  | Difficulty:  | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 20
BONUS:  Answer some questions about the Diophantine equation a x plus b y equals c, for 10 points each:
[10] ] Since the equation is Diophantine, it only accepts these values as inputs. This set of numbers, symbolized with a blackboard Z, includes both positive and negative whole numbers.
ANSWER: INTEGERS
[10]  The value of c in that equation must divide this function of a and b. This value, which can be computed from the Euclidean algorithm, is the largest integer that divides both a and b.
ANSWER: GCF
[10] This other Diophantine equation is named for a British mathematician and is written x squared minus n times y squared equals 1. It is often solved using continued fractions.
ANSWER: PELL

64.
ID: 5207  | Difficulty:  | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 21
BONUS:  In one story, this author of "Master and Man" wrote about Pahom, who tries to walk in a circle to claim a section of Bashkir territory, only to die of exhaustion. For 10 points each
[10] ] This other Russian wrote about the poor clerk Akaky Akakievich, whose new cloak is stolen, in "The Overcoat," and about a detached body part which joins the civil service in "The Nose."
ANSWER: GOGOL
[10]  Name this author whose short stories include "How Much Land Does a Man Need?" A second-person tour through besieged ground makes up the first of his three Sevastopol Sketches
ANSWER: TOLSTOY
[10] ] In this short story by Anton Chekhov, Gurov accosts a married couple at a performace of The Geisha some time after beginning an affair in Yalta with the title woman, Anna Sergeyevna.
ANSWER: LADY WITH THE DOG

65.
ID: 5208  | Difficulty:  | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 22
BONUS:  This body's officials served a term of two months before being replaced by officials from other families. For 10 points each:
[10]  Identify this legislative body, which included such positions as the Gonfaloniere of Justice, and expanded in size after the fall of the Albizzi.
ANSWER: SIGNORIA
[10] The Signoria was the legislative body of this city-state, the site of the Ciompi Revolt and the Pazzi Conspiracy
ANSWER: FLORENCE
[10]  The leader targeted in the Pazzi Conspiracy was this member of the Medici family who created the Council of Twelve Good Men and was eclipsed as Florentine leader by Savonarola upon his death.
ANSWER: LORENZO

66.
ID: 5567  | Difficulty:  | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 1
BONUS: A dictator of this country makes an appearance as "the Big Man" at the end of a novel set here titled The Yacoubian Building. For 10 points each:
[10]  Identify this country home to the author of Midaq Alley, Children of Gebelawi and Sugar Stree
ANSWER: EGYPT
[10]  Naguib Mahfouz is best known for a trilogy of novels, including Palace Walk and Palace of Desire as well as the aforementioned Sugar Street, titled for this Egyptian city.
ANSWER: CAIRO
[10]  Alaa Al Aswany, the author of The Yacoubian Building, wrote about a group of Egyptian ex-pats living in this American city in a 2007 novel. This city was also the setting of a trilogy of books about Studs Lonigan by James T. Farrell.
ANSWER: CHICAGO

67.
ID: 5568  | Difficulty:  | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 2
BONUS: The constant appearing in this law was first approximated using a torsion balance by Henry Cavendish and is equal to about 6.67 times 10 to the negative 11th in SI units. For 10 points each:
[10]  The period of these phenomena can be derived by using Newton's Law of gravitation and considering a system in which the Moon is pulling on a ring of deformable liquid surrounding the earth as it orbit
ANSWER: TIDE
[10]  Identify this law which gives the gravitational attraction between two bodies as proportional to the product of their masses divided by the square of the distance of their centers apart.
ANSWER: NEWTON
[10]  A set of differential equations that describe tides are named for this Frenchman. He also names an operation symbolized del squared that equals the sum of the partial second derivatives of a function.
ANSWER: LAPLACE

68.
ID: 5569  | Difficulty:  | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 3
BONUS:  This group's aircraft units were commanded by Hugo Sperrle. For 10 points each
[10]  Name this special German Air Force and Army unit that was sent to intervene in the Spanish Civil War, culminating in the 1937 terror bombing of Guernica.
ANSWER: CONDOR LEGION
[10]  The Spanish Civil War ended when this right-wing generalissimo set up a dictatorship that lasted until 1975. He pursued a policy of neutrality during World War II.
ANSWER: FRANCO
[10]  This right-wing Spanish party, which came to lead the Francoist movement, was founded by Jose Antonio Primo de Rivera, who wanted to set up a fascist government in Spain.
ANSWER: FALANGE

69.
ID: 5570  | Difficulty:  | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 4
BONUS: Three nude women, including one who is putting on green socks, stand in front of this painting in the artist's later work, The Models. For 10 points each:
[10] 0] Georges Seurat's A Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte was painted in this style, which composes images from small dots of pure color
ANSWER: POINTILLISM
[10]  Identify this painting by a contemporary of Paul Signac whose figures include a man playing a trumpet and four men in white rowing a boat. A man smokes a pipe in the foreground of this work
ANSWER: LA GRANDE JATTE
[10]  It's not green, but Paul Signac created a pointillist seascape titled for a sail with this color. Van Gogh and Gauguin spent time together in a house of this color on the Place Lamartine, with Van Gogh decorating it with his sunflower paintings.
ANSWER: YELLOW/JAUNE

70.
ID: 5571  | Difficulty:  | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 5
BONUS: 1. This man gained power after leading a coup against Roger Mortimer, whom he killed at Nottingham Castle with the help of the Earl of Salisbury. For 10 points each:
[10]  Edward III's reign included this event, which prompted the passage of the Statute of Laborers. It killed one third of Europe
ANSWER: BLACK DEATH
[10]  Name this king, who ruled during England's victories at Crecy and Neville's Cross as well as the opening of the Good Parliament
ANSWER: EDWARD III
[10] This son of Edward III and Philippa of Hainult got his name from his colored armor. He led the Poitiers Campaign and supported Pedro the Cruel in the Najera campaign
ANSWER: BLACK PRINCE

71.
ID: 5573  | Difficulty:  | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 7
BONUS:  This character initially opposes the match between her niece, Lydia Languish, and Captain Jack Absolute. For 10 points each:
[10]  In this other Sheridan play, characters like Mr. Sneer and Sir Fretful Plagiary cause a ruckus in Mrs. Dangle's kitchen. Plagiary eventually puts on a play-within-a-play set during the reign of Queen Elizabeth.
ANSWER: CRITIC
[10] ] Identify this character from the 1775 comedy The Rivals, also known for saying things like "she's as headstrong as an allegory on the banks of the Nile" and "he is the very pine-apple of politeness".
ANSWER: MALAPROP
[10]  Mrs. Malaprop is a creation of this Irish author of Pizarro, The Duenna and The School for Scandal.
ANSWER: SHERIDAN

72.
ID: 5680  | Difficulty:  | Category: Philosophy | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 1
BONUS:  A Roman philosopher who took his surname from this school of thought was the first to formulate the regress argument. For 10 points each:
[10] ] Quine also argued that any number of hypotheses about how to perform this action may be defended, thus leading to its indeterminacy. Walter Benjamin argued that the "task" of the person doing it is to aspire to "pure language." 
ANSWER: TRANSLATION
[10]  Different truths-by-themselves can be derived because empiricism is incompatible with the traditional analytic/synthetic distinction according to this thinker's Two Dogmas of Empiricism.
ANSWER: QUINE
[10]  Name this school of thought, which contends that all knowledge comes from experience. It is the cornerstone of the philosophy of science due to its emphasis on experimental evidence.
ANSWER: EMPIRICISM

73.
ID: 5681  | Difficulty:  | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature World
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 2
BONUS:  Philip II upholds Juan Crespo's decision to execute an army captain who had abducted his daughter Isabel in this man's play The Mayor of Zalamea. For 10 points each:
[10] This Spanish author invented the term "nivola" to describe his works that were not quite novels, such as Niebla and San Manuel Bueno, Martir. He also wrote philosophical works like The Tragic Sense of Life.
ANSWER: UNAMUNO
[10]  Calderon, like the Culteranist poet Luis de Gongora and his Conceptist rival Francisco de Quevedo, is an author from the "Golden Age" of literature in this Iberian country.
ANSWER: SPAIN
[10]  Identify this seventeenth-century dramatist who depicted the unusual effects of an isolated childhood on Seigusmundo, the son of the King of Poland, in his play La Vida es SueÃ±o, or Life is a Dream
ANSWER: CALDERON

74.
ID: 5683  | Difficulty:  | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 4
BONUS: Identify the following about tanks, for 10 points each.
[10]  The first combat use of tanks was at the village of Flers during this World War I battle, which also included the South African defense of Delville Wood.
ANSWER: SOMME
[10] Although around a thousand of the second iteration of these German tanks were used in the Invasion of Poland, Allied tanks with 50 or 75 millimeter weapons started rendering that iteration ineffective.
ANSWER: PANZER
[10] ] 1961 saw a tank standoff at this German border crossing. Peter Fechter's body was stranded here a year later, and it's now home to the Allied Museum
ANSWER: CHECKPOINT CHARLIE

75.
ID: 5684  | Difficulty:  | Category: Mythology | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 5
BONUS: One leader of this place, Ilus, was blinded when the Palladium was sent to earth. For 10 points each:
[10]  Identify this city whose walls were built by Poseidon and Apollo
ANSWER: TROY
[10]  The first king of Troy was this son of Ilus, under whose rule the walls of Troy were built. He was killed by Heracles after refusing to give up his magic horses.
ANSWER: LAOMEDON
[10]  This son of Priam and abductor of Helen was exposed on a hillside as a child. During the Trojan War, he managed to kill Achilles with an arrow
ANSWER: PARIS

76.
ID: 5685  | Difficulty:  | Category: Mythology | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 6
BONUS:  This symphony calls for eight trumpets, eight French horns, seven trombones, three different choirs, and an organ. For 10 points each:
[10] The "Symphony of a Thousand" was written by this Austrian composer of The Song of the Earth, whose second symphony is nicknamed "Resurrection."
ANSWER: MAHLER
[10]  Name this symphony, whose second part is based on the final scene from Faust, Part Two. It begins with a setting of the hymn "Veni, creator spiritus
ANSWER: SYMPHONY OF A THOUSAND
[10] Mahler's score also calls for this keyboard instrument that produces sound by striking metal bars. Tchaikovsky featured it in his "Dance of the Sugar Plum Fairy."
ANSWER: CELESTA

77.
ID: 5686  | Difficulty:  | Category: History | Subcategory: History British
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 7
BONUS:  Answer the following about Anthony Ashley Cooper, the 7th Earl of Shaftesbury, for 10 points each.
[10]  Shaftesbury was a political ally of this prime minister, who commanded the force that defeated Napoleon Bonaparte at the Battle of Waterloo
ANSWER: WELLESLEY
[10] ] In 1832 Shaftesbury opposed the first two of these acts that expanded British suffrage, on the grounds that they would cause class warfare.
ANSWER: REFORM
[10]  Shaftesbury pushed for an 1875 act banning this form of child labor after the death of George Brewster. Workers in this profession were prone to a type of skin cancer of the scrotum, suffocation, and bone deformities
ANSWER: CHIMNEY SWEEPING

78.
ID: 5687  | Difficulty:  | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Math
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 8
BONUS:  For 10 points each, answer the following about boxplots
[10] The length of the "box" in a boxplot is given by this range between the data points in the twenty-fifth and seventy-fifth percentiles.
ANSWER: INTERQUARTILE
[10]  These data points are depicted as circles or asterisks on a boxplot. They represent values that are unusually different from the rest of the data set and may indicate errors in their collection.
ANSWER: OUTLIER
[10] ] Traditionally, outliers are data points greater than this many interquartile ranges beyond the upper or lower quartiles.
ANSWER: 1.5

79.
ID: 5688  | Difficulty:  | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Other
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 9
BONUS:  Identify the following about linguistics, for 10 points each:
[10] ] This subfield of linguistics deals with the rules of how words and other elements form grammatical sentences
ANSWER: SYNTAX 
[10]  This other subfield consists of the description and analysis of units of meaning in a language, such as words, affixes, and parts of speech.
ANSWER: MORPHOLOGY
[10]  This subfield examines the ways in which context affects meaning. Such context might consist of the situation or knowledge of the participants.
ANSWER: PRAGMATICS

80.
ID: 5689  | Difficulty:  | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 10
BONUS:  The speaker describes how "the Sabbath rang slowly / in the pebbles of the holy streams" at the end of the second stanza of this poem, which tells of a time when the speaker "was young and easy under the apple boughs." For 10 points each:
[10] This poem, an early success for Thomas, describes figures whose "bones are picked clean", saying that "Though they sink through the sea they shall rise again" and averring "Though lovers be lost love shall not."
ANSWER: "And Death Shall Have No Dominion
[10] ] The author of "Fern Hill," Dylan Thomas, also penned this famous villanelle for his dying father, which urges the addressee to "rage, rage against the dying of the light."
ANSWER: "Do Not Go Gentle Into That Good Night
[10] Identify this poem by the author of Under Milk Wood, which ends with the lines "Time held me green and dying, though I sang in my chains like the sea."
ANSWER: FERN HILL

81.
ID: 5690  | Difficulty:  | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 11
BONUS:  The title figure holds a flower pot in his portrait Woman with Plants, while his oddly-bulging landscapes include Young Corn. For 10 points each:
[10] ] Identify this artist who depicted three haughty ladies in front of Washington Crossing the Delaware in one painting
ANSWER: WOOD
[10]  Grant Wood is best known for this painting, in which a farmer holds a pitchfork next to his spinster sister
ANSWER: AMERICAN GOTHIC
[10] This other American Regionalist painter included scenes like Pioneer Days and Huckleberry Finn in his Social History of the State of Missouri, located in the capitol building in Jefferson. He also painted Cut the Line
ANSWER: BENTON

82.
ID: 5691  | Difficulty:  | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 12
BONUS:  The pro-slavery Lecompton constitution was advanced during this conflict, and Charles Sumner gave a speech about the "crime" of the state it took place in. For 10 points each:
[10] ] Identify this conflict which was set off by an incident in which Charles Dow was shot by a pro-slavery settler, leading to John Brown joining the conflict. It included the Wakarusa War and Potawatomie Massacre
ANSWER: BLEEDING KANSAS
[10] This was the name given to pro-slavery elements who came into Kansas from Missouri in order to turn Kansas into a slave state.
ANSWER: BORDER RUFFIANS
[10] This abolitionist preacher raised money to buy rifles for anti-slavery forces during Bleeding Kansas, which were known as his namesake "bibles."
ANSWER: BEECHER

83.
ID: 5692  | Difficulty:  | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 13
BONUS: The sum of the exponents in these laws gives the overall order of the reaction, and they are usually derived through kinetic experiments. For 10 points each:
[10] ] Name these laws that describe how fast a chemical reaction will occur given the concentrations of the reactant
ANSWER: RATE
[10]  The rate law for a reaction can be derived from analyzing these sub-steps of a reaction. These are steps in a reaction mechanism in which a set of intermediates turns into another set of intermediates with no other species in between
ANSWER: ELEMENTARY
[10] ] The slowest elementary step in a reaction is given this name, indicating its importance to finding the velocity of the overall reaction.
ANSWER: RATE DETERMINING

84.
ID: 5693  | Difficulty:  | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 14
BONUS: . This book's protagonist researches his collateral ancestor Cass Mastern and refers to Adam Stanton as the "man of idea," while his boss is the "man of fact." For 10 points each:
[10]  Name this book about Jack Burden, who serves as the personal aide to the increasingly corrupt Governor Willie Stark
ANSWER: ALL THE KINGS MEN
[10]  This proponent of New Criticism and the Southern Agrarian movement co-founded the Southern Review with Cleanth Brooks and wrote All The King's Men.
ANSWER: WARREN
[10] ] This character served as a father figure to Jack Burden, until Jack learns that his taking of a bribe early in his career indirectly caused Mortimer Littlepaugh's suicide
ANSWER: MONTAGUE IRWIN

85.
ID: 5694  | Difficulty:  | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 15
BONUS:  The Westermarck effect is a reverse version of this type of learning that is thought to prevent incest. For 10 points each
[10]  Name this type of learning that usually takes place in childhood. An excellent example is a group of geese following the first thing they see after they hatch
ANSWER: IMPRINTING
[10]  This scientist discovered the imprinting mechanism with his experiments on graylag geese. This biologist also wrote King Solomon's Ring and On Aggression.
ANSWER: LORENZ
[10]  The window for imprinting is given this name. After this span of time, imprinted behaviors can no longer occur
ANSWER: CRITICAL

86.
ID: 5695  | Difficulty:  | Category: History | Subcategory: History British
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 16
BONUS: It was the political goal of Isaac Butt, and the legislation providing for it failed twice, in 1886 and 1893. For 10 points each
[10]  John Redmond nearly achieved what political ambition, supported by Charles Parnell and opposed by the Orange Order?
ANSWER: HOME RULE
[10]  Home Rule meant separate governments in Great Britain and this present-day country, which became independent thanks to a treaty signed by Michael Collins
ANSWER: IRELAND
[10] One blow to the Home Rule movement was the spurious accusation of involvement by Parnell in this 1882 mass killing of British government figures, actually perpetrated by the Invincibles.
ANSWER: PHOENIX PARK

87.
ID: 5696  | Difficulty:  | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 17
BONUS: In one scene in this work, the Father entices Madame Pace to return to the stage by putting coats and hats on racks. For 10 points each:
[10]  Pirandello's best novel is this 1904 work, in which the title character wins a small fortune gambling in Monte Carlo, finds that he has been declared dead, and decides to adopt a new identity
ANSWER: LATE MATTIA PASCAL
[10] ] Identify this play, ostensibly set during a staging of its author's other play The Rules of the Game, which ends with the drowning of the Child and the suicide of the Boy.
ANSWER:  Six Characters in Search of an Author [or Sei Personaggi in Cerca d'Autore]
[10]  An actor becomes convinced he is actually a certain Holy Roman Emperor after falling off his horse and hitting his head in Henry IV, a play by this Sicilian author of Six Characters in Search of an Author
ANSWER:  Luigi Pirandello

88.
ID: 6669  | Difficulty:  | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 4
BONUS: [missing]

89.
ID: 7800  | Difficulty:  | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature European
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 1
BONUS: [missing]

90.
ID: 7801  | Difficulty:  | Category: Geography | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 2
BONUS: For 10 points each, answer these questions about mountain-building in the northeast United States.
[10] This first of the three Appalachian orogenies had two impacts at the northeast and southwest ends of the Eastern Flysch Basin. The Clinch/Tuscarora formation, a bed of quartz compressed into sandstone, marks the end of this orogeny.
ANSWER: Taconic Orogeny 
[10] The Taconic Orogeny is connected with the closing of this body of water, which separated Laurentia from Baltica and Avalonia
ANSWER: Iapetus Ocean
[10] The existence of the Iapetus Ocean was posited by this American paleontologist, who observed different types of trilobites in English and Scottish rock formations. He also names a quarry in the Burgess Shale formation, which contains Cambrian fossils discovered by him.
ANSWER: Charles Doolittle Walcott 

91.
ID: 7802  | Difficulty:  | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 3
BONUS: This form of literature was also known as "shilling shockers" or "bloods" and featured such titles as Wagner the Wehr-Wolf. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this genre of inexpensive serialized novels popular in Victorian England and aimed at the lower classes
ANSWER: penny dreadfuls 
[10] One pre-existing work recast as a penny dreadful was this novel in which Father Ambrosio murders his mother Elvira after being tricked by sorcery.
ANSWER: The Monk
[10] Matthew Lewis translated Cristoph Wieland's epic poem named after this character into English. This character also titles a masque by Ben Jonson and an opera by von Weber.
ANSWER: Oberon [or Oberon, the Faery Prince; or Oberon, or The Elf King's Oath]

92.
ID: 7804  | Difficulty:  | Category: Religion | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 5
BONUS: In this practice, one holds set of prayer beads called misbaha while reciting the praises of Allah. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Islamic form of prayer that begins with 33 repetitions of "Glory be to Allah."
ANSWER: tasbih [prompt on, but do not reveal, dhikr]
[10] The last part of the tasbih prayer is the recitation of this phrase 34 times; it is called the takbir and means "Allah is great."
ANSWER: Allahu Akbar
[10] Tasbih can be considered a form of this kind of Islamic prayer, in which a devotee silently repeats the names of God to himself.
ANSWER: dhikr [or zikr]

93.
ID: 7806  | Difficulty:  | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 7
BONUS: This term was first used in a paper by Paul Steinhardt and Dov Levine to describe certain objects in which atoms have an orderly pattern that is not periodic. For 10 points each:
[10] The icosahedral quasicrystals Shechtman discovered are characterized by this constant. Penrose's tiling of the plane used shapes with side lengths ratio of this constant.
ANSWER: golden ratio [prompt on "phi"]
[10] Name these objects that were discovered by Dan Shechtman in 1982 when he ran an electron diffraction experiment on a rapidly cooled mixture of manganese and aluminum. They caused him to remark "there can be no such creature" in Hebrew.
ANSWER: quasicrystals 
[10] Linus Pauling claimed that there were "no quasi-crystals, just quasi-scientists" and instead proposed to explain the findings with this idea that boundaries between intergrown crystals give periodic unexplainable five-fold symmetries because of how the lattice points are superimposed.
ANSWER: multiple twinning 

94.
ID: 7807  | Difficulty:  | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature World
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 8
BONUS: This author won the second annual OCM Bocas Prize in 2012 for his book about Kangkala, Sonnyboy, and other inhabitants of Cascadu starting in the 1970s. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this author of Is Just a Movie who also wrote about Fisheye and Pariag living on Calvary Hill in another work.
ANSWER: Earl Lovelace 
[10] This contemporary writer from the Caribbean wrote about Yunior, who compares Rafael Trujillo to Sauron, in The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao.
ANSWER: Junot Diaz 
[10] The longlist for the 2013 OCM Bocas Prize in fiction included this Diaz collection that starts out with "The Sun, the Moon, The Stars," about Yunior's relationship struggles with Magdalena
ANSWER: This Is How You Lose Her 

95.
ID: 7808  | Difficulty:  | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 9
BONUS: Its creator applied it to the 1965 West German elections. For 10 points each:
[10] The "spiral of silence" is often compared with this phenomenon, in which a fear of reprisals stops people from exercising their free speech, thereby silencing unconventional opinions
ANSWER: the chilling effect 
[10] Name this concept expounded on by Elisabeth Noelle-Neumann in which perceived gaps in opinion accelerate or actualize the growth of those gaps.
ANSWER: the spiral of silence 
[10] The spiral of silence is related to this phenomenon of personal alteration tested by Solomon Asch in a series of experiments involving lines of different lengths
ANSWER: conformity 

96.
ID: 7810  | Difficulty:  | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 11
BONUS: This ruler's namesake stele, dating from 1292, was discovered by a Buddhist monk in the 19th-century. 
[10] Identify this third and greatest ruler of the Sukhothai kingdom, a champion of Theravada Buddhism and a national hero of Thailand.
ANSWER: Rama Kamheng [or Ramkhamhaeng]
[10] The Buddhist monk who discovered Rama Kamheng's stele later became this Thai king from the Chakri Dynasty. He offered a gift of elephants to James Buchanan, sadly not for the purpose of trampling Confederates, and hired Anna Leonowens as governess of his children.
ANSWER: Rama IV [or King Mongkut]
[10] Rama Kamheng's most lasting legacy is this invention, which he created personally. It is analogous to a development overseen by Sejong the Great in Korea.
ANSWER: the Thai alphabet [or the Thai writing system; do not accept the "Thai Language"]

97.
ID: 7811  | Difficulty:  | Category: Trash | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 12
BONUS: After being contractually obligated to play for the Virginia Squires, this athlete was largely responsible for the only two titles won by the New York Nets. For 10 points each:
[10] One of Dr. J's most famous moves was the "Rock the Baby" dunk carried out in 1983 over this stalwart defensive player for the Los Angeles Lakers.
ANSWER: Michael Jerome Cooper
[10] After being contractually obligated to play for the Virginia Squires, this athlete was largely responsible for the only two titles won by the New York Nets. For 10 points each:
ANSWER: Julius Winfield Erving II [or Doctor J]
[10] Erving's acting chops were showcased in this 1979 film, in which a struggling basketball team achieves success through the use of astrology. It's as good as it sounds.
ANSWER: The Fish that Saved Pittsburgh

98.
ID: 7812  | Difficulty:  | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Other
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 13
BONUS: This style was influenced by the earlier Arts and Crafts Movement, as seen in the work of its main exponent in the UK, Charles Rennie Mackintosh. For 10 points each:
[10] This style was influenced by the earlier Arts and Crafts Movement, as seen in the work of its main exponent in the UK, Charles Rennie Mackintosh. For 10 points each:
ANSWER: Art Nouveau
[10] This Belgian brought Art Nouveau to architecture with four townhouses he designed in Brussels, including the Tassel House.
ANSWER: Victor Horta 
[10] Hector Guimard's contributions to Art Nouveau include the 141 iron and glass entrances he designed for this system, only 58 of which still remain
ANSWER: the Paris Metropolitan

99.
ID: 7814  | Difficulty:  | Category: Philosophy | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 15
BONUS: . In this passage, a people without government sends for a foreign doctor while dying of a plague, but none of them pay him after being saved; when the plague comes back, the doctor refuses to return, and all but two families die. For 10 points each: 
[10] Identify this passage about a people in Arabia who habitually massacre their governments when they perform badly, then unanimously decide to go without a government, with disastrous results.
ANSWER: the fable of the Troglodytes [prompt on, but do not reveal, answers like "The eleventh Persian Letter or the twelfth Persian letter]
[10] The fable of the Troglodytes appears in this epistolary work by Montesquieu about Rica and Usbek's journey to France.
ANSWER: The Persian Letters
[10] This French philosopher, who wrote a commentary on Book 29 of The Spirit of the Laws, divided human history into ten evolutionary stages in his Sketch for a Historical Picture of the Progress of the Human Mind.
ANSWER: Nicolas de Condorcet [or the Marquis de Condorcet]

100.
ID: 7815  | Difficulty:  | Category: Mythology | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 16
BONUS: Answer these questions about a Celtic fertility god, for 10 points each.
[10] This deity, who lives only between the winter and summer solstices, is often depicted carrying a bag of gold coins, although he is more often depicted with a stag's horns.
ANSWER: Cernunnos
[10] The only known artifact that depicts Cernunnos with his name is the Pillar of the Boatmen, which also includes depictions of these twin sons of Leda.
ANSWER: Castor and Pollux [or the Dioscuri]
[10] Cernunnos is often depicted with one of these animals with ram's horns. Other examples of these animals include Ophion, who ruled the world with Eurynome, and Gukumatz, who created the world in the Popol Vuh.
ANSWER: snake [or serpent]

101.
ID: 7817  | Difficulty:  | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 18
BONUS: This musician described a young poet who sings to a lady the lai "Qui n'aroit autre deport" in the opening section of his Le Remede de Fortune. For 10 points each
[10] Name this trouvere who also composed music to accompany his poem Le Voir Dit, which recounted his love affair with the young Peronne.
ANSWER: Guillaume de Machaut [or Guillaume de Machault]
[10] Machaut was one of the most important composers of this period of French music starting in the fourteenth century. This period received its name from another composer active during it, Philippe de Vitry.
ANSWER: Ars Nova [or New Art]
[10] This most-famous work by Machaut was the first setting of the Ordinary mass written by a single composer.
ANSWER: La Messe de Nostre Dame [or Notre Dame Mass]

102.
ID: 7819  | Difficulty:  | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 20
BONUS: Hunsicker-Wang's elucidation of the structure of this protein in Thermus thermophilus revealed a conserved 10 beta-strand fold, for 10 points each:
[10] Name this component of the cytochrome b6f complex, distinguished from other members of its class in that two histidine, rather than two cysteine, residues coordinate a central metal ion. 
ANSWER:  Rieske protein
[10] This component of photosystem I acts as the final electron acceptor in non-cyclic photophosphorylation, reducing NADP+ to NADPH, which is then fed into the Calvin Cycle.
ANSWER: ferredoxin 
[10] The Rieske protein and ferredoxin are examples of this family of compounds which were proposed by Wachtershauser as integral to the origin of life. Sometimes also including the rubredoxins, members of this family, named for two elements, typically play a role in electron shuttling.
ANSWER: iron-sulfur proteins 

103.
ID: 8909  | Difficulty:  | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 1
BONUS: Construction on this fortification began after the signing of the Treaty of Tartu in 1920, which established a border between two countries on the Karelian Isthmus. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this defensive fortification constructed between Taipale and the Gulf of Finland.
ANSWER: Mannerheim Line [or Mannerheim-linja]
[10] The Mannerheim Line ultimately held during this 1939Â–1940 conflict between the Soviet Union and Finland. The Soviet Union attempted to reclaim land lost during its 1917 civil war, but was unable to fully conquer Finland again.
ANSWER: Winter War
[10] This Soviet general managed to penetrate the Mannerheim Line as leader of the 7th army during the Winter War. He broke the Siege of Leningrad as commander during Operation Iskra.
ANSWER: Kirill Meretskov

104.
ID: 8910  | Difficulty:  | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 6
BONUS: The practices governing this system are inclusive to most society members in Dobu, but restricted to elites on other islands. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this system documented in a classic 1922 anthropology text, which centers around goods like red shell necklaces and white shell armbands.
ANSWER: the kula ring [or exchange]
[10] This American anthropologist, author of Copper Town: Changing Africa and Hollywood, the Dream Factory, was a student of Malinowski. She documented interracial Mississippi in the 1930s in the study After Freedom.
ANSWER: Hortense Powdermaker
[10] This Polish anthropologist investigated race relations in Africa in Dynamics of Culture Change and examined the kula ring in Argonauts of the Western Pacific.
ANSWER: Bronisław Malinowski

105.
ID: 8911  | Difficulty:  | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 7
BONUS: This phylum was traditionally divided into polychaetes and oligochaetes, but of course that's all gone to shit now. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this invertebrate phylum that includes the friendly Mr. Earthworm and the overly-friendly Hirudinea, better known as Mr. Leech. They are often called "segmented" or "ringed worms."
ANSWER: annelids or Annelida [but they don't cause ring worm, which is a fungus, despite wikianswers defining "ringworms" as annelids "that eat humans"]
[10] Because they're so warm and fuzzy, some parasitic annelids possess the respiratory gelatin chlorocruorin, which is structurally similar to this globular protein with a heme group. The first protein to have its three-dimensional structure elucidated, it is found in muscle tissue, and is thus the reason why meat appears red.
ANSWER: myoglobin
[10] Taxonomic musical chairs has led trochozoans, like the annelids, to be regrouped into a superphylum along with organisms possessing this ciliated ring of tentacles surrounding the mouth. It is found in brachiopods and something called "moss animals," the bryozoa.
ANSWER: lophophore

106.
ID: 8912  | Difficulty:  | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 8
BONUS: This man was aided by Alexandre Banza in launching the Saint-Sylvestre Coup targeting Jean Izamo and David Dacko. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this African dictator who massacred 100 schoolchildren for refusing to wear uniforms, who was branded a cannibal after several witnesses at his trial claimed that his walk-in freezer was not walk-out.
ANSWER: Jean-BÃ©del Bokassa [or Bokassa I or Salah Eddine Ahmed Bokassa]
[10] Bokassa spent around ten years ruining this geographically-appropriately named African country whose capital is Bangui.
ANSWER: Central African Republic [accept Central African Empire from hardcore Bokassa-ists]
[10] Bokassa was best buds with this French president who lost the 1981 election to Mitterrand after it was revealed that Bokassa had been greasing this leader's palms with diamonds stolen from the CAR. His economic program, overseen by Prime Minister Raymond Barre, included the launching of the TGV train.
ANSWER: ValÃ©ry Giscard d'Estaing

107.
ID: 8913  | Difficulty:  | Category: History | Subcategory: History Other
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 9
BONUS: The east face of this monument features a female warrior sitting on a pile of weapons, and a relief of Faustulus encountering two young boys under a tree is shown on its west wall. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this monument, built to commemorate a certain emperor's return from Spain and Gaul, which was situated on the east end of the Campus Martius.
ANSWER: Ara Pacis Augustae [or Altar of Augustan Peace]
[10] On the north face of the Ara Pacis, a procession is led by a group of these people, who were known as flamines. In another sculpture, one of them named LaocoÃ¶n is strangled by snakes along with his sons.
ANSWER: priests [do not accept "prophets"]
[10] This American architect designed a museum to house the Ara Pacis in Rome. He also designed the Getty Center in Los Angeles, and is seemingly obsessed with the color white.
ANSWER: Richard Meier

108.
ID: 8915  | Difficulty:  | Category: Trash | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 11
BONUS: Answer some questions about everyone's favorite race, the Zerg. For 10 points each:
[10] The Zerg appear in several iterations of Starcraft, a game created by this company. It published the game The Lost Vikings under the name Silicon and Synapse in its early years, and faced controversy in 2012 when people could not access the game servers for Diablo III upon release.
ANSWER: Blizzard Entertainment
[10] In Starcraft II: Heart of the Swarm, you play as this character who is in control of the Zerg swarm. She seeks revenge on Arcturus Mengsk for ordering her assassination at the hands of Tychus Findlay and attempts to reunite with Jim Raynor.
ANSWER: Sarah Kerrigan
[10] These flying caster units are introduced to the Zerg in Heart of the Swarm. Their Blinding Cloud ability is a remake of the Protoss Corsair's Disruption Web.
ANSWER: Vipers

109.
ID: 8916  | Difficulty:  | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 12
BONUS: Answer the following about English novelist Daniel Defoe. For 10 points each:
[10] Defoe wrote a picturesque novel about this woman, who was born from a woman imprisoned in Newgate, before being shipped to the Americas. She marries many times, including her half-brother, but ultimately returns happy to England at the age of 70.
ANSWER: Moll Flanders
[10] Defoe also wrote this novel, also about a woman, who runs through all of society by courting a prince and prostituting herself out, all the while being served by the loyal Amy.
ANSWER: Roxana: The Fortunate Mistress
[10] Ian Watt argued that Defoe's novels instigated the principles "individualism" and "economic freedom" in a book length study of Defoe, Richardson and this other novelist who wrote Tom Jones.
ANSWER: Henry Fielding

110.
ID: 8917  | Difficulty:  | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 13
BONUS: The main character of this work eventually realizes he has no legs, arms, or face. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this anti-war novel about Joe Bonham.
ANSWER: Johnny Got His Gun
[10] Johnny Got His Gun is by this American author and screenwriter who was one of the Hollywood Ten, blacklisted for his communist sympathies. He also wrote Eclipse.
ANSWER: Dalton Trumbo
[10] Another member of the Hollywood Ten was the son of this writer, who often wrote about baseball in books like You Know Me Al. Yes, this bonus was phoned in.
ANSWER: Ring Lardner

111.
ID: 9681  | Difficulty:  | Category: None | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 1
BONUS: [missing]

112.
ID: 9684  | Difficulty:  | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 4
BONUS: The "Z-" form of this molecule is unusually left-handed, unlike its "A" and "B" forms, and its concentration in nanograms per microliter is often measured by taking 50 times the A-260. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this polymer composed of adenine, guanine, cytosine, and thymine. It is usually found in the nucleus wrapped around histones to form chromatin. 
ANSWER: DNA [or deoxyribonucleic acid]
[10] A common method of sequencing DNA using dideoxy chain-terminating nucleotides was developed by this British scientist, who also determined the structure of insulin using a different namesake reagent. 
ANSWER: Frederick Sanger
[10] Modern high-throughput sequencing is commonly done using platforms developed by this San Diego-based company, whose products include the HiSeq and MiSeq platforms. This company acquired Solexa in 2007.
ANSWER: Illumina 

113.
ID: 9685  | Difficulty:  | Category: Religion | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 5
BONUS: This church affirmed its communion with the Holy See in 1182. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Eastern Catholic church, which has its seat at Antioch.
ANSWER: Syrian Maronite Church of Antioch [or al-Kanisa al-Antakiyya al-Suryaniyya al-Maruniyya; or ʿIto Suryoito Morunoito d'Antiokia]
[10] Most Maronite Christians are found in this formerly Christian-majority country, the most religiously diverse country in the Middle East. The Shi'a group Hezbollah has a strong presence in this country.
ANSWER: Lebanon
[10] This liturgical language, a descendant of Aramaic, is the language in which the standard Peshitta bible used by many Eastern churches is written.
ANSWER: Syriac 

114.
ID: 9686  | Difficulty:  | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Math
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 6
BONUS: After seeing his Russian captors use the schoty version of this device, Jean-Victor Poncelet reintroduced it to Western Europe. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this device that gave its name to a namesake group that opposed the efforts of algorists. The Russian schoty used horizontal wires, but East Asian versions like the Chinese suanpan used vertical ones.
ANSWER: abacus [or counting frame; prompt on foreign language equivalents such as "schoty" or "suanpan" or "soroban" or "jupan" or "supan" or "jusan" or "nepohualtzintzin"]
[10] The abacists spread of these mathematical symbols to Europe. Leonardo Fibonacci argued that they were better for commerce and calculations than Roman numerals in his Liber Abaci.
ANSWER: Hindu-Arabic numerals [or Indo-Arabic numbering system]
[10] Algorists derived their methods from this Abbasid mathematician, who edited Ptolemy's Geography and wrote The Compendious Book on Calculation by Completion and Balancing.
ANSWER: Abu Abdallah Muhammad ibn Musa al-Khwarizmi [or Algoritmi; or Algaurizin; do not accept answers with "Jafar"] 

115.
ID: 9687  | Difficulty:  | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 7
BONUS: This book argues that its title bourgeois concept first developed in Britain and that its critical features were replaced a society oriented around leisure. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this book, which argues that the critical-rational debate that formed public opinion was replaced by the welfare state and mass-society as part of a dialectic that saved the liberal constitutional order.
ANSWER: The Structural Transformation of the Public Sphere
[10] In The Structural Transformation of the Public Sphere, Jurgen Habermas argued that coffee houses in this city were key to the development of its bourgeois culture. This city names a "Circle" of philosophers who shared a common philosophy of logical positivism.
ANSWER: Vienna [or Wien]
[10] After 9-11, Habermas collaborated with this philosopher, with whom he once feuded, on Philosophy in a Time of Terror. He included the anti-Foucault essay "Cogito and the History of Madness" in Writing and Difference.
ANSWER: Jacques Derrida  

116.
ID: 9688  | Difficulty:  | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 8
BONUS: Tom DeLay's attempt to do this in 2003 was struck down by the Supreme Court in League of United Latin American Citizens v. Perry, though only in district 23. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this highly questionable practice of redrawing electoral districts in order to obtain an edge in elections. Its name is a portmanteau of a Massachusetts politician and an amphibian.
ANSWER: gerrymandering [prompt on "redistricting" or "reapportionment"]
[10] This 1962 Supreme Court case stated that redistricting is not a "political question", allowing federal courts to rule on instances of gerrymandering. It was followed up two years later by Reynolds v. Sims.
ANSWER: Baker v. Carr [accept either underlined portion]
[10] Wesberry v. Sanders, which required districts to be equal in population, originated in this state. This state also originated a case which ruled that Congress didn't overstep the commerce clause in passing the 1964 Civil Rights Act.
ANSWER: Georgia [or GA; the other case is Heart of Atlanta Motel v. US] 

117.
ID: 9690  | Difficulty:  | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 10
BONUS: Answer some questions about a state of matter, for 10 points each.
[10] This equation models the behavior of particles that theoretically have no molecular volume and undergo perfectly elastic collisions, and states that P V equals n R T.
ANSWER: ideal gas law
[10] This equation expresses P V hat over R T as a series expansion and takes into account the Pitzer eccentricity factor and reduced temperature. Its second order truncation is the Van der Waals equation.
ANSWER: virial equation of state [or Kamerlingh-Onnes equation]
[10] This equation of state used in fluid dynamics contains eight experimentally determined coefficients and was created as an expansion and rearrangement of the Beattie-Bridgeman equation of state.
ANSWER: Benedict-Webb-Rubin equation of state [or BWR] 

118.
ID: 9691  | Difficulty:  | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature European
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 11
BONUS: The scholar Felix Philipp Ingold is among the few who still cling to the theory that this novel was plagiarized from the work of Fyodor Krukov or others. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this novel in which Grigori Melikhov falls in love with Aksinia Astakhova, the most famous work by the author of Virgin Soil Upturned.
ANSWER: And Quiet Flows the Don [or Quietly Flows the Don; or Tikhiy Don; or The Quiet Don]
[10] Mikhail Sholokhov's And Quiet Flows the Don is a landmark of this official Soviet literary genre, propounded by culture minister Andrei Zhdanov (ZUH-dah-nov). The first major work in this style was another author's 1906 novel Mother.
ANSWER: socialist realism [do not accept "social realism"]
[10] Mother was written by this author, the namesake of a Moscow amusement park, whose more famous works include the short story "Twenty-Six Men and a Girl" and the play The Lower Depths.
ANSWER: Maxim Gorky [or Alexei Maximovich Peshkov] 

119.
ID: 9692  | Difficulty:  | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 12
BONUS: Answer the following about prominent uses of the double bass in jazz, for 10 points each.
[10] This composer had a bass soloist pluck eight notes in D-Dorian, followed by a 2-note band response, then pluck 9 more notes, then get another 2-note response, in the head of "So What," the first track on his album Kind of Blue. 
ANSWER: Miles Davis
[10] This ill-tempered bassist attacked a segregationist governor in "Fables of Faubus," and included a "Love-Chant" on his album Pithecanthropus Erectus. He also released an album titled for his surname followed by Ah Um.
ANSWER: Charles Mingus
[10] The bass line to this jazz standard opens with the ascending half-steps G, A-flat, A, B-flat, then leaps up a seventh to play another A-flat and B-flat. It's the first track on the album Head Hunters.
ANSWER: "Chameleon" [by Herbie Hancock] 

120.
ID: 9693  | Difficulty:  | Category: None | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 13
BONUS: [missing]

121.
ID: 9694  | Difficulty:  | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Math
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 14
BONUS: When solving a system of linear ODEs, the sign of the real part of these entities determines the solution's stability. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these roots of the characteristic polynomial. For a given linear operator and a vector such that the operator on the vector equals some constant times the vector, these values are that constant multiple.
ANSWER: eigenvalue
[10] The eigenvalues can be calculated by taking this operation on A minus I times lambda. This operation for a diagonal matrix is just the product of the diagonal elements, and it appears repeatedly in Cramer's rule.
ANSWER: determinant
[10] If a given operator is Hermitian, its eigenvalues all have this property.
ANSWER: they're all real [or obvious equivalents, such as they have no imaginary part] 

122.
ID: 9695  | Difficulty:  | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 15
BONUS: This former commander of the Ghost division authored the book Infantry Attacks. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Field Marshal nicknamed the Desert Fox who committed suicide after he was discovered to be part of the 20th of July plot to assassinate Adolf Hitler.
ANSWER: Erwin Rommel
[10] Rommel won an early victory against the United States' II corps at this February 1943 battle, though the Allies managed to stop his advance. During this battle in Tunisia, the Nickforce defended the town of Thala.
ANSWER: Battle of Kasserine Pass
[10] During this battle that immediately preceded Kasserine pass, a Nazi force commanded by Hans-Jurgen von Arnim advanced through the Faid pass during a sandstorm. It shares a site with the first Arab Spring protests in Tunisia.
ANSWER: Battle of Sidi Bouzid 

123.
ID: 9696  | Difficulty:  | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 16
BONUS: The flux from these things can be estimated using the Sakuma-Hattori equation. For 10 points each:
[10] The total energy radiated by a blackbody is proportional to this power of the temperature.
ANSWER: fourth power [accept four, do NOT accept "negative fourth" or "one-fourth"]
[10] Name these roots of the characteristic polynomial. For a given linear operator and a vector such that the operator on the vector equals some constant times the vector, these values are that constant multiple.
ANSWER: blackbody
[10] When the Stefan-Boltzmann law is applied to real objects, this variable, which ranges from zero to one, multiplies one side. This value is the ratio of thermal radiation of an object to that of an ideal blackbody.
ANSWER: emissivity [prompt on e or epsilon] 

124.
ID: 9697  | Difficulty:  | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 17
BONUS: The protagonist of this poem has a vision of the future, according to which"the kindly earth shall slumber, lapt in universal law". For 10 points each:
[10] The title figure of this short romantic poem by Tennyson "clasps the crag with crooked hands" and "watches from his mountain walls", the latter from which "like a thunderbolt he falls."
ANSWER: "The Eagle" 
[10] Identify this poem in which a soldier passing by the title edifice, his childhood home, angrily reminisces about losing the love of his cousin Amy.
ANSWER: "Locksley Hall"
[10] "Locksley Hall" was written by this Victorian poet of "Ulysses" and "Tithonus", who described a ride "into the Valley of Death" in his "Charge of the Light Brigade."
ANSWER: Alfred, Lord Tennyson [or Alfred Tennyson, 1st Baron Tennyson]

125.
ID: 9698  | Difficulty:  | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 18
BONUS: This series' final entry shows an old man praying in a boat who is made joyous by the appearance of an angel, who gestures towards a light at the top right. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this four-part allegorical painting series which depicts a journey down a river.
ANSWER: The Voyage of Life
[10] This Hudson River school artist of The Voyage of Life also created a five-part series showing the rise and fall of a classical civilization in The Course of Empire.
ANSWER: Thomas Cole
[10] A pair of Thomas Cole paintings, The Past and The Present, center on one of these buildings that has become ruined over time. Cranach the Elder painted a hunt taking place with one of these in the background near Hartenfels.
ANSWER: castles [prompt on "fortresses"] 

126.
ID: 9699  | Difficulty:  | Category: Mythology | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 19
BONUS: This object was fashioned along with Gullinbursti and MjÃ¶lnir when Loki challenged the dwarves Brokkr and Eitri to make objects better than those of the Sons of Ivaldi. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this gold ring with the ability to multiply itself that was placed onto the funeral pyre of Baldr.
ANSWER: Draupnir
[10] As was custom in many Germanic societies, Baldr was placed onto one of these craft when he died. The sun god Ra makes his journey across the sky and through the underworld in one of these vehicles.
ANSWER: ships [or boats; or barges; or barques]
[10] In the Gylfaginning, this is the name of a dwarf who is kicked onto Baldr's funeral pyre by Thor, who is described as a "fight-challenger" of the men of another character with this name in the Skaldskaparmal.
ANSWER: Litr 

127.
ID: 10781  | Difficulty:  | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Math
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 1
BONUS: In a method developed by Lee Cronbach, this letter represents the level of reliability of a measurement tool, such as a survey. For 10 points each:
[10] In statistical testing, type I and type II errors occur when one incorrectly rejects or incorrectly fails to reject this "default position".
ANSWER: null hypothesis [prompt on partial answer]
[10] While Cronbach's alpha can measure reliability, it does not measure this concept, the degree to which a measurement reflects reality. Sometimes used interchangeably with accuracy, when used with regard to experiments it comes in internal and external forms.
ANSWER: validity
[10] Name this letter that denotes the probability of committing a type I error, which means it can be used to represent the level of significance of a test.
ANSWER: alpha

128.
ID: 10782  | Difficulty:  | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 7
BONUS: For 10 points, give some influential French anthropologists:
[10] This man espoused his structuralist view that mental structures and human characteristics are constant across societies in several books, The Savage Mind and TristesTropiques being a few examples.
ANSWER: Claude Levi-Strauss
[10] This nephew of Emile Durkheim wrote extensively on the Kula Ring in his The Gift.
ANSWER: Marcel Mauss
[10] This proponent of actor-network theory wrote Aramis, or the Love of Technology, but is probably better known for We Have Never Been Modern.
ANSWER: Bruno Latour

129.
ID: 10783  | Difficulty:  | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 8
BONUS: These organisms can been found in black smokers and acid lakes, and PCR uses a polymerase that is derived from one of these organisms. For 10 points each:
[10] Tardigrades are in the same superphylum as arthropods because they undergo this process, in which exoskeletons are sloughed off and new ones grown in the old one's place.
ANSWER: ecdysis [or moulting]
[10] Identify this term for organisms that live in conditions in which most other organisms would perish.
ANSWER: extremophiles [anti-prompt on thermophiles or acidophiles]
[10] These extremophiles can withstand incredibly high doses of radiation, have survived in outer space, and can go without food for like one hundred and twenty years. You might know them better as water bears or moss piglets.
ANSWER: tardigrades [or Tardigrada]

130.
ID: 10784  | Difficulty:  | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 9
BONUS: For 10 points each, give some details surrounding some U.S. disappearances.
[10] This merchant brigantine originally set off for the Strait of Gibraltar when it was later found on December 4, 1872 unmanned with its cargo untouched.
ANSWER: Mary Celeste
[10] This U.S. ship was declared lost at sea for over 100 years after fighting at Hampton Roads and foundering in a storm. It was designed by John Ericsson.
ANSWER: USS Monitor
[10] This aviator disappeared with Fred Noonan while on her attempt to fly across the globe. She never made it to a refueling station in the South Pacific, causing some to think that she crashed and died.
ANSWER: Amelia Earhart

131.
ID: 10785  | Difficulty:  | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 10
BONUS: Despite the fact their constituents can often rotate plane-polarized light, these mixtures do not. For ten points each:
[10] Enantiomers are examples of the "stereo" kind of these molecules, which can also be "structural". They generally have the same molecular formula but not the same shape and/or bonds.
ANSWER: isomers
[10] Name these mixtures discovered by Louis Pasteur when he created a mixture of equal parts right- and left-handed enantiomers of tartaric acid.
ANSWER: racemic mixtures
[10] These two letters are used to denote enantiomers based on whether the direction of lowest to highest priority is clockwise or counterclockwise.
ANSWER: R and S

132.
ID: 10786  | Difficulty:  | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature European
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 11
BONUS: For 10 points each, name some characters created by Fyodor Dostoevsky.
[10] This central character of The Possessed hangs himself at the end of the novel. A chapter called "At Tikhon's" in which he confesses to seducing a 14-year-old girl was originally censored.
ANSWER: Nikolai Stavrogin [accept either name]
[10] In another novel, Fyodor is the murdered father of the brothers Dmitri, Ivan, and Alexei, who are all members of this family.
ANSWER: Karamazov family
[10] This saintly but naive prince is the title character of Dostoevsky's The Idiot.
ANSWER: Prince Lev Nikolayevich Myshkin [accept either name]

133.
ID: 10787  | Difficulty:  | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature World
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 12
BONUS: Name some philosophers who have advocated for animal rights, for 10 points each.
[10] This philosopher argued that animals should be given moral consideration because of their sentience in his Discourse on Inequality. He also wrote a treatise on education in the form of a novel.
ANSWER: Jean-Jacques Rousseau
[10] This pessimistic philosopher owned a succession of poodles, all named Atma, and was another early supporter of animal rights. He wrote The World as Will and Representation.
ANSWER: Arthur Schopenhauer
[10] This Australian, who controversially argued for the morality of consensual bestiality in his article "Heavy Petting," wrote Animal Liberation, a key text in the modern animal rights movement.
ANSWER: Peter Singer

134.
ID: 10788  | Difficulty:  | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 13
BONUS: For 10 points each, name some stuff about the Battles of Panipat.
[10] The first Battle of Panipat saw Babur defeat the forces of Ibrahim Lodi, thus paving the way for Babur to found this empire that would also include the reign of his grandson, Akbar.
ANSWER: Mughal Empire
[10] ] At the third Battle of Panipat, one side was led by Ahmad Shah Durrani, a king of this country. In more recent times, this country's Northern Alliance opposed the rule of Mullah Omar.
ANSWER: Afghanistan
[10] The opponent of Ahmad Shah Durrani at Third Panipat was this empire. In the wake of the battle, MadhavRao I became the fourth Peshwa of this empire that would go on to fight three wars against the British East India Company.
ANSWER: Maratha Empire

135.
ID: 10789  | Difficulty:  | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 14
BONUS: He referred to his fifth symphony as "a Soviet artist's creative response to justified criticism." For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Soviet composer of that Symphony No. 5 in D minor, along with symphonies titled Leningrad and Babi-Yar.
ANSWER: Dmitri Shostakovich
[10] At the end of Shostakovich's fifth symphony, the violins repeat this note 252 times. Orchestras generally tune to this pitch, whose major key has three sharps.
ANSWER: A's [accept A major]
[10] Shostakovich's symphony of this number unusually consists of eleven linked movements, each of which is a setting of a poem.
ANSWER: Symphony No. 14

136.
ID: 10790  | Difficulty:  | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 15
BONUS: The time-averaged form of this quantity is divided by the speed of light to calculate radiation pressure. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this vector that points in the direction of propagation for an EM wave and is equal to the cross product of the electric and magnetic fields.
ANSWER: Poynting vector
[10] Because the Poynting vector is obtained by taking the cross product of the electric and magnetic fields, it has this property in relation to them. When two vectors with this property are dotted, their product is zero.
ANSWER: orthogonal [or normal; or obvious equivalents]
[10] Using complex phasor representation, one can derive the time-averaged Poynting vector as this numerical factor times the real part of the cross product of electric field and the complex conjugate of the magnetic H field. It appears because the real part of the phasor is equal to this factor times the phasor plus its complex conjugate, which eliminates the sine term in Euler's formula.
ANSWER: one-half

137.
ID: 10791  | Difficulty:  | Category: Religion | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 16
BONUS: He was originally a fisherman at the Sea of Galilee with his brother Andrew. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this apostle whom Jesus referred to as the rock on which he would build his church. In Roman Catholic tradition, he was the first pope.
ANSWER: Simon (or Simeon) Peter or Saint Peter [prompt on "Simon" or "Simeon," prompt on "Kepha(s)"]
[10] Peter heals a lame man at the entrance to this location, known as the Beautiful Gate.
ANSWER: the Templein Jerusalem [acceptSecond Temple or Herod's Temple; do not accept "First Temple"]
[10] In the Book of Mark, Jesus informs Peter that he will deny Jesus three times before he twice hears one of these animals.
ANSWER: rooster [accept cock from people who think they're cute or clever]

138.
ID: 10792  | Difficulty:  | Category: History | Subcategory: History British
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 17
BONUS: Edward I of England established a reputation as a ferocious warrior. For 10 points each, name some of his enemies in battle.
[10] Another one of Edward's foes is this one who originally fought for Edward, but later was defeated by Edward's troop at Methven. He got revenge by defeating Edward's son at Bannockburn.
ANSWER: Robert the Bruce
[10] Before he was crowned, Edward defeated this Duke of Leicester in the Battle of Evesham after this man opposed Henry III in the Second Baron's War.
ANSWER: Simon de Montfort
[10] William Wallace fought for the independence of this country, for whose conquest Edward gained fame. Robert the Bruce later led this country in another wave of opposition against the king.
ANSWER: Scotland

139.
ID: 10793  | Difficulty:  | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 18
BONUS: This poem notes that "Beauty is momentary in the mind Â… but in the flesh it is immortal." For 10 points each:
[10] Name this poem whose speaker declares that "Music is feeling, then, not sound." It is an adaptation of the story of Susanna and the Elders.
ANSWER: "Peter Quince at the Clavier"
[10] This poem includes the cryptic line "Let bebe finale of seem" and commands, "Call the roller of big cigars Â… and bid him whip in kitchen cups concupiscent curds."
ANSWER: "The Emperor of Ice-Cream"
[10] "Peter Quince at the Clavier" and "The Emperor of Ice-Cream" both appear in Harmonium, a collection by this poet.
ANSWER: Wallace Stevens

140.
ID: 10794  | Difficulty:  | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 19
BONUS: This painting, now housed in the MoMA, shows a man with a goatee who holds both a top hat and a flower. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this painting, where the title figure stands in front of several fields of color that spiral out from the center.
ANSWER: Portrait of FÃ©lix FÃ©nÃ©on
[10] Paul Signac, the painter of Portrait of FÃ©lix FÃ©nÃ©on, helped start this art movement, along with Georges Seurat. It uses several small dots of color that together form an image.
ANSWER: pointillism
[10] This painting by Seurat shows several men reclining along the banks of a river, including one who wears only red trunks and another with a red hat on his head.
ANSWER: Bathers at AsniÃ¨res [accept UneBaignade, AsniÃ¨res]

141.
ID: 10795  | Difficulty:  | Category: Geography | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 20
BONUS: One lake in this country is so named because of a swamp fortress Prince Pribina built. For 10 points each :
[10] What is this European country that contains the Zala River, which feeds its Lake Balaton? It also includes Lake Heviz, the largest thermal lake in the world
ANSWER: Hungary
[10] The White branch of this Hungarian river descends the Chornohora Mountains. The Baia Mare cyanide spill on Romania's Somes River also affected this river.
ANSWER: Tisza River
[10] The Tisza feeds this river, which is second in length only to the Volga in Europe. It flows through Ulm, Linz, Budapest and Belgrade.
ANSWER: Danube River

142.
ID: 10796  | Difficulty:  | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 21
BONUS: This crop of the genus Zea has a namesake smut which is considered a delicacy in many Mesoamerican countries. For 10 points each:
[10] This woman spent a lot of time studying corn. This Nobel Prize laureate is also noted for elucidating various meiotic mechanisms, including crossing over.
ANSWER: Barbara McClintock
[10] What golden crop can also be used to produce biofuels like ethanol?
ANSWER: corn [accept maize]
[10] Barbara McClintock also discovered transposition, which is utilized by this Disney-inspired system to splice DNA sequences into animal chromosomes.
ANSWER: Sleeping Beauty transposon system

143.
ID: 11254  | Difficulty:  | Category: History | Subcategory: History Classical
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 1
BONUS: A mural from the Villa of Livia provides valuable information about the composition of these locations, whose study was pioneered by Wilhelmina Jashemski. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these places generally located at the back of a domus, sometimes within a peristyle. The Piazza d'Oro is one example of these places, many of which were found at the Villa Poppaea of Oplontis.
ANSWER: ancient Roman gardens [or horti; or viridaria; accept clear-knowledge equivalents]
[10] A well-preserved garden was found at the House of Sallust in this city near Naples. Its four styles of mural painting include some famously sexual scenes, which were luckily preserved when Vesuvius destroyed it.
ANSWER: Pompeii
[10] The eruption of Vesuvius also destroyed this town, where the deep layers of hot ash better conserved the shape of its buildings. Excavations at this site unearthed a library of scrolls at the Villa of the Papyri.
ANSWER: Herculaneum [or Ercolano]

144.
ID: 11255  | Difficulty:  | Category: Current Events | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 2
BONUS: The third round of this policy was launched in September of 2012, and it is intended to stimulate the U.S. economy by making money more widely available to investors. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this policy that may be tapered beginning in September of this year.
ANSWER: quantitative easing
[10] Quantitative easing actually largely consists of the Fed buying back these financial instruments that come in short term and long term varieties and have a yield inversely proportional to the market interest rate.
ANSWER: bonds [accept more specific answers]
[10] Many fear that tapering quantitative easing will cause investors to withdraw cash from emerging markets, perhaps triggering an event that would mirror a 1997-1998 crisis that began when this country floated its currency, the Baht.
ANSWER: Thailand

145.
ID: 11257  | Difficulty:  | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 4
BONUS: If the energy for a particle in this model is greater than the potential V-sub-naught, it is unbound. For 10 points each:
[10] The solution for an infinite square well is typically written as root of two over the length of the well, L, times sine of n pi over L times x, where the factor root two over L comes from normalizing a particle's wavefunction so that its integral over the length of the well, or the probability of finding the particle in the well, is this number.
ANSWER: one
[10] Name this model whose transcendental solutions to the SchrÃ¶dinger equation involve a function of tangent and cotangent for even- and odd-parity solutions.
ANSWER: one-dimensional finite potential well [or one-dimensional finite square well; or FPW; or FSW; or particle in a finite-walled box; do not accept answers containing "infinite"]
[10] The potential energy for the quantum harmonic oscillator system depends on this power of the distance from the origin.
ANSWER: two

146.
ID: 11258  | Difficulty:  | Category: Mythology | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 5
BONUS: This people's moon god Igalukgets thinner every month because he forgets to eat while chasing his sun goddess sister Malina. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this myth system that describes Anguta cutting off his daughter Sedna's fingers to create whales and seals, after which Sedna heads to the bottom of the sea with the weather-controlling Qailertetang.
ANSWER: Inuit people [accept Inuk; prompt on Eskimos]
[10] In a myth of this people, a bear chases seven girls onto a rock, which grows in height but can't save them from becoming the Pleiades. The White Buffalo Calf Woman gave them a sacred pipe, and they believe in the trickster Iktomi.
ANSWER: Lakota people [or Teton; or Titunwan; accept Sioux; accept Kiowa since there's some overlap in their mythology]
[10] In Inuit myth, Nanook is the master of one species of these animals, which the Latvian hero Lāčplēsis is good at slaying. The nymph Callisto is transformed into one of these animals, creating the constellation Ursa Major.
ANSWER: bears [or Ursidae; accept specific species; prompt on carnivores or mammals or other less specific answers]

147.
ID: 11259  | Difficulty:  | Category: Philosophy | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 6
BONUS: This work asks if Maldoror is the angel of pity in its section "LautrÃ©amont and Banality." For 10 points each:
[10] Name this philosophical essay that discusses historical regicide and state terrorism, positing that "murder and suicide are one and the same thing." This work claims that "to breathe is to judge."
ANSWER: The Rebel [or L'HommerÃ©voltÃ©]
[10] The Rebel was written by this Algerian-born philosopher, who claimed that "one must imagine Sisyphus happy" in The Myth of Sisyphus.
ANSWER: Albert Camus
[10] This contemporary of Camus claimed that authenticity is necessary but not sufficient condition for an ethical system in Must We Burn Sade? This author of The Ethics of Ambiguity wrote that "One is not born, but rather becomes, a woman" in another work.
ANSWER: Simone-Lucie-Ernestine-Marie Bertrand de Beauvoir

148.
ID: 11260  | Difficulty:  | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 7
BONUS: The title goddess huddles on a red cloth next to a shivering Cupid in this artist's Venus Frigida. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this painter of a self-portrait with his first wife called The Honeysuckle Bower. This artist of a Descent from the Cross and the Marie de' Medici cycle is noted for his depictions of voluptuous women.
ANSWER: Peter Paul Rubens
[10] Rubens' first wife was this woman, who is also the subject of a portrait by Anthony van Dyck.
ANSWER: Isabella Brant
[10] Rubens collaborated with the elder of the two painters named Jan from this family. Another member of this family painted The Fight Between Carnival and Lent and The Tower of Babel.
ANSWER: Brueghel

149.
ID: 11261  | Difficulty:  | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Other
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 8
BONUS: Zhang Heng  is sometimes credited with having invented the first odometer, which may have been used in tandem with his south-pointing chariot. For 10 points each:
[10] Zhang Heng also improved upon the clepsydra, which is the Greek term for a water-powered one of these devices.
ANSWER: clocks
[10] Zhang Heng also invented one of the first of these devices, which consisted of a large bronze vessel adorned with eight dragons and possibly contained a pendulum sensitive to vibrations.
ANSWER: seismographs [accept seismometers]
[10] One law that relates the magnitude and number of earthquakes in a region is named after Gutenberg and this man, who is also the eponym of a certain scale.
ANSWER: Charles Francis Richter

150.
ID: 12057  | Difficulty:  | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature World
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 2
BONUS: At the end of this novel, the main character's sons plan to sell his farm. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this novel about Wang Lung, whose early struggles and later triumphs culminate in his becoming very wealthy and purchasing a concubine named Lotus Flower.
ANSWER: The Good Earth
[10] Name the Chinese-born American author of The Good Earth, who won the Pulitzer Prize for it in 1932.
ANSWER: Pearl Sydenstricker Buck [accept Sai Zhenzhu]
[10] This character, the first wife of Wang Lung, is a slave purchased by Wang Lung's father for him to marry. She later dies of a stomach problem.
ANSWER: O-Lan

151.
ID: 12058  | Difficulty:  | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 3
BONUS: The axial variety of this process applies to the rotational axis of an astronomical body. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this process by which the orientation of the axis of a rotating body is changed, which exists in torque-induced and torque-free varieties.
ANSWER: Precession
[10] The angular velocity of precession is equal to m times g times r all divided by the product of this quantity and the angular velocity of spin about the axis.
ANSWER: Moment of Inertia [accept Rotational Inertia; do not accept or prompt on Inertia]
[10] Precession is seen in these devices, consisting of a wheel whose axis is able to have any orientation. Toy varieties of these devices are spun by pulling a string wrapped around its axis.
ANSWER: Gyroscope

152.
ID: 12059  | Difficulty:  | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 4
BONUS: One work by this man explores the title concept as a system of classification that marks a family's lineage from a mythical figure. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Scottish anthropologist who wrote Totemism and Exogamy.
ANSWER: Sir James George Frazer
[10] Frazer is most famous for this work of comparative mythology subtitled A Study in Magic and Religion, named for an item that allowed Aeneas to enter the underworld.
ANSWER: The Golden Bough
[10] In another work, Frazer explored the folklore of this section of the Bible. Contrasting with its "New" counterpart, stories in this text include Abraham's covenant and Jonah and the Whale.
ANSWER: Old Testament

153.
ID: 12060  | Difficulty:  | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 5
BONUS: Some Vice Presidents are just awful. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this man who got 34 electoral votes against Washington's 69 and became the first Vice President. Later, as President, he signed the Alien and Sedition Acts.
ANSWER: John Adams
[10] This later Vice President infamously used Murphy Brown, a fictional working mother, as an example of America's "poverty of values." He also thought that Mars is in the same orbit as Earth and has a breathable atmosphere.
ANSWER: James Danforth Quayle [accept "Dan Quayle"]
[10] This Republican won the Vice Presidency in 1968 and 1972, but was forced to resign after pleading no contest to tax evasion, having received bribes as Governor of Maryland.
ANSWER: Spiro Theodore Agnew

154.
ID: 12061  | Difficulty:  | Category: Geography | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 6
BONUS: Cities in this state include Wollongong, Maitland, and Newcastle, and suburbs in its most populous city include Woolloomooloo and Parramatta. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Australian state that borders the Jervis Bay Territory to the south.
ANSWER: New South Wales
[10] New South Wales encloses the Australian Capital Territory, home to this Australian capital city.
ANSWER: Canberra
[10] The most populous city in Australia's interior, Alice Springs, is located in this territory that is bordered by the Arafura Sea. Its capital is Darwin.
ANSWER: Northern Territory

155.
ID: 12063  | Difficulty:  | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 8
BONUS: Before Italian unification, this state was personally ruled by the Pope. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this central Italian polity, which was annexed by the Kingdom of Italy when the Italian capital was moved from Turin to Rome.
ANSWER: Papal States
[10] This grand duchy north of Rome was briefly replaced by the Kingdom of Etruria, then ruled by Napoleon's sister Elisa. It later federated with Parma and Modena as a client state of Sardinia-Piedmont.
ANSWER: Tuscany
[10] This southern Italian kingdom was ruled by descendants of the House of Bourbon like Francis II until its capital of Naples was captured by the Expedition of the Thousand.
ANSWER: Two Sicilies

156.
ID: 12065  | Difficulty:  | Category: Mythology | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 10
BONUS: After her brother threw a flayed horse on her loom, this deity took refuge in a cave and plunged the world into darkness. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this deity who was lured out of the cave by her reflection in a mirror.
ANSWER: Amaterasu
[10] Amaterasu is one of these deities worshipped in Shinto. Other examples of these deities include her brother Susano'o.
ANSWER: Kami
[10] This kami of fertility and agriculture is worshipped throughout Japan, but is most known for her many tailed servant foxes, Kitsune.
ANSWER: Inari

157.
ID: 12066  | Difficulty:  | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 11
BONUS: The 2002 Nobel Prize in Medicine went to a team that studied apoptosis in this model organism. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this tiny nematode, whose adult male form has exactly 1031 somatic cells and possesses a remarkably simple neural connectome.
ANSWER: Caenorhabditis elegans [prompt on Caenorhabditis]
[10] This other model organism is useful for showing inheritance of traits like eye color and wing shape. The "tinman" gene causes embryos of this rapidly-reproducing insect to lack hearts.
ANSWER: Drosophila melanogaster [accept Fruit fly; prompt on Fly]
[10] The divisions of this model organism may demonstrate the effects of calorie restriction on aging. This fungus was the first eukaryote to have its genome sequenced.
ANSWER: Saccharomyces cerevisiae [accept baker's yeast and budding yeast; prompt on yeast and Saccharomyces]

158.
ID: 12067  | Difficulty:  | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature European
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 12
BONUS: This play closes with Garcin concluding that "hell is other people." For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this play in which three characters are brought together into a room with Second Empire furniture by a valet who lacks eyelids. 
ANSWER: No Exit [accept Huis Clos]
[10] No Exit was written by this French philosopher and playwright, who also wrote about Antoine Roquentin suffering from a "sweetish sickness" in Nausea.
ANSWER: Jean-Paul Charles Aymard Sartre
[10] This character in No Exit attempts to seduce Estelle, who later stabs this character with a paper knife.
ANSWER: InÃ¨z Serrano [accept either]

159.
ID: 12068  | Difficulty:  | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 13
BONUS: Name some American photographers, for 10 points each:
[10] This photographer's portfolio included many landscape photographs of Yosemite National park, and he also depicted a town at night in Moonrise, Hernandez, New Mexico.
ANSWER: Ansel Adams
[10] This photographer depicted the deck of a boat holding groups of men and women on its way to Germany in Steerage. He was married to Southwest painter Georgia O'Keefe.
ANSWER: Alfred Stieglitz
[10] This photographer took a series of photographs detailing the internment of Japanese Americans during World War II, but she is known for her photo Migrant Mother.
ANSWER: Dorothea Lange

160.
ID: 12069  | Difficulty:  | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 14
BONUS: This man supported the Declaration of 46, whose signers later backed him in the Left Opposition of the Bolshevik Party. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this revolutionary and first leader of the Red Army who founded the Fourth International.
ANSWER: Leon Davidovich Trotsky
[10] As Commissar for Foreign Affairs, Trotsky led the delegation to sign this treaty, where he proclaimed "no war, no peace" against the Central Powers and rescinded Russia's claims to Ukraine and the Baltic states.
ANSWER: Treaty of Brest-Litovsk
[10] Trotsky's guiding philosophy was this concept, Marx's original proposal, which was vigorously opposed by Stalin's "socialism in one country."
ANSWER: Permanent revolution

161.
ID: 12070  | Difficulty:  | Category: Religion | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 15
BONUS: According to Muslim tradition, this figure is covered with mouths and tongues and he stands ready to blow the trumpet on the Day of Judgment. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this archangel, the Muslim counterpart to Raphael.
ANSWER: Isrāfīl [accept Israfel]
[10] Jibrīl revealed the Qur'ān to this prophet, who replaced the Black Stone in the Kaaba and will be the first to be resurrected on the Day of Judgment.
ANSWER: Muhammad
[10] Another archangel is this messenger who made certain revelations in the Cave of Hira. In Christianity, this figure made the Annunciation.
ANSWER: Jibrīl [accept Jibrā'īl or Gabriel]

162.
ID: 12073  | Difficulty:  | Category: Philosophy | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 18
BONUS:  One section of this work argues that by nature, a slave is someone else's property. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this philosophical work that examines the governments of Greek city-states, and argues for a strong middle-class in power to protect against corruption.
ANSWER: Politics
[10] This Greek philosopher and tutor of Alexander the Great posited the idea of eudaimonia in his Nicomachean Ethics, in addition to writing Politics.
ANSWER: Aristotle
[10] In Politics, Aristotle argued that this form of government was the corrupt form of a polity. He viewed this form of government as giving power to the poor, instead of the middle class.
ANSWER: Democracy

163.
ID: 12074  | Difficulty:  | Category: History | Subcategory: History Classical
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 19
BONUS: This leader founded Antinopolis in memory of his lover. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this ruler who walled off Caledonia from Britannia, the third of the Five Good Emperors.
ANSWER: Hadrian
[10] This last of the Good Emperors is most famous for authoring the Meditations. He was the last of the Good Emperors because he was succeeded by his terrible son Commodus.
ANSWER: Marcus Aurelius
[10] The Senate declared this man to be emperor after the assassination of Domitian. He was the first of the Good Emperors.
ANSWER: Nerva

164.
ID: 12076  | Difficulty:  | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 21
BONUS: This work is narrated by Charles Marlow aboard the Nellie after his completion of an expedition into the jungle to locate a rogue ivory trader. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this novel, in which Kurtz dies after muttering, "The horror! The horror!"
ANSWER: Heart of Darkness
[10] Heart of Darkness was written by this Polish-born British author, who also wrote about Mr. Verloc in The Secret Agent.
ANSWER: Joseph Conrad
[10] This novel by Conrad, set in the city of Sulaco in the country of Costaguana, sees the title character secretly acquire silver that was formerly owned by Charles Gould.
ANSWER: Nostromo

165.
ID: 13326  | Difficulty:  | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 1
BONUS: This German author of The Religion of China, The Religion of India, and Economy and Society delineated rational-legal, traditional, and charismatic types of authority. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this sociologist who suggested that Calvinism was responsible for the appearance of a novel economic system in Northern Europe.
ANSWER: Max Weber
[10] Weber proposed that the Protestant ethic was closely related to "the spirit of" this economic system based on free markets, which communists oppose.
ANSWER: capitalism
[10] In Politics as a Vocation, Weber defined this political entity as a holder of monopoly on the legitimate use of force in a given area.
ANSWER: the state [accept Staat; do not accept or prompt any synonyms]

166.
ID: 13328  | Difficulty:  | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 3
BONUS: William Hobson signed the poorly-translated, oft-violated Treaty of Waitangi with its natives. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this Commonwealth nation whose troops fight with Australia in the ANZAC corps. The aforementioned Hobson moved its capital from Auckland to Wellington in 1865.
ANSWER: New Zealand [accept Aotearoa]
[10] Often divided into settlements called iwi, these are the indigenous people of New Zealand.
ANSWER: Maori [accept tangata whenua]
[10] A century and a half before James Cook, this Dutch explorer got beat up by Maori while discovering New Zealand on his first voyage. He had previously sighted Van Diemen's Land.
ANSWER: Abel Tasman

167.
ID: 13329  | Difficulty:  | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 4
BONUS: In females, it produces three polar bodies and one oocyte, while in males it produces four spermatocytes. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this process central to gamete creation, in which a cell with chromosome pairs divides into four haploid cells with only one of each chromosome.
ANSWER: meiosis
[10] Homologous chromosomes "cross over," recombining some genes, during this first phase of meiosis.
ANSWER: prophase I [prompt on "prophase"]
[10] When meiosis produces a diploid gamete, and that gamete joins another gamete to form a zygote, this trait results. Plants with this property, such as wheat, are often hardier, while most animals with this trait die or are infertile.
ANSWER: polyploidy [accept "triploidy"]

168.
ID: 13330  | Difficulty:  | Category: Geography | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 5
BONUS: Consisting of over 7,000 islands, this country featured a large settlement on a mountainous landfill in Payatas.. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this country, separated from Taiwan by the Luzon Strait and from Indonesia by the Sulu Sea. Its capital city is Manila.
ANSWER: Philippines
[10] This city adjacent to the capital Manila is the largest city in the Philippines.
ANSWER: Quezon City
[10] This southeastern Philippine island, the second-largest in the country after the northern island of Luzon, has a substantial Muslim population.
ANSWER: Mindanao

169.
ID: 13331  | Difficulty:  | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 6
BONUS: This German author of The Religion of China, The Religion of India, and Economy and Society delineated rational-legal, traditional, and charismatic types of authority. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this sociologist who suggested that Calvinism was responsible for the appearance of a novel economic system in Northern Europe.
ANSWER: Max Weber
[10] Weber proposed that the Protestant ethic was closely related to "the spirit of" this economic system based on free markets, which communists oppose.
ANSWER: capitalism
[10] In Politics as a Vocation, Weber defined this political entity as a holder of monopoly on the legitimate use of force in a given area.
ANSWER: the state [accept Staat; do not accept or prompt any synonyms]

170.
ID: 13332  | Difficulty:  | Category: Religion | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 7
BONUS: Name some Biblical Judges, for 10 points each.
[10] This Judge joined forces with the Israelite general Barak to take down the Canaanite general Sisera in battle. The writer of a namesake "song," she gave judgments under a palm tree and was female.
ANSWER: Deborah
[10] This Nazirite Judge told Delilah, a Philistine spy, that his hair was the source of his prodigious strength; she then subsequently betrayed him by shaving his head.
ANSWER: Samson
[10] After the Israelites turned to idol worship following Deborah's victory, God picked this tribesman of Manasseh and son of Joash, to destroy the idols, free the Israelites from pagan worship, and conscript an army to fight the Midianites. After that victory, Israel experienced a 40-year peace.
ANSWER: Gideon

171.
ID: 13333  | Difficulty:  | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 8
BONUS: Answer some questions about the first Yalie to become President, for 10 points each:
[10] This obese Ohioan President's cabinet included anti-conservationist Richard Ballinger and "dollar diplomacy" advocate Philander Knox. He succeeded Theodore Roosevelt.
ANSWER: William Howard Taft
[10] Taft  ousted Jose Zelaya as the first of many Presidents to send Marines to this Western hemisphere country, later ruled by Daniel Ortega's Sandinistas.
ANSWER: Nicaragua
[10] Taft's attempt to finance a railway through China echoed this man's Open Door policy. A former personal aide to Lincoln, he co-named treaties regarding the Panama Canal as Roosevelt's Secretary of State.
ANSWER: John Hay

172.
ID: 13334  | Difficulty:  | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature European
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 9
BONUS: The title character's sister is romantically attached to Charles Lomax and she herself is loved by Greek scholar, Adolphus Cusins. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this play about the moral struggle between the title Salvation Army officer and her arms-manufacturing father, Andrew Undershaft.
ANSWER: Major Barbara
[10] Major Barbara is by this Irish playwright, who wrote of Vivie's shocking discovery of the source of her mother's income in Mrs. Warren's Profession.
ANSWER: George Bernard Shaw
[10] Jack Tanner tries to resist entrapment in marriage by Ann Whitefield in this Shaw play, which includes the play-within-a-play "Don Juan in Hell".
ANSWER: Man and Superman

173.
ID: 13335  | Difficulty:  | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Math
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 10
BONUS: The chain rule allows for performing this operation on composite functions. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this operation related to the integral by the Fundamental Theorem of Calculus, which determines the slope of a function at a single point.
ANSWER: derivative [accept differentiation or word forms thereof]
[10] These series approximate non-polynomial functions by generating an infinite polynomial whose coefficient for the x-to-the-n term is usually the nth derivative over n factorial. A subtype is the Maclaurin series.
ANSWER: Taylor series
[10] Unduloids are functions with this type of mean curvature. Functions with this property have derivatives of 0, since their slope is always 0.
ANSWER: constant [prompt "their value doesn't change" or things like that]

174.
ID: 13336  | Difficulty:  | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 11
BONUS: Answer some questions about the architecture of Washington D.C., for 10 points each.
[10] This designer of New Haven's own Ives Memorial Library and New York City's Woolworth Building designed the Supreme Court Building.
ANSWER: Cass Gilbert
[10] George Washington hired this French architect to design Washington D.C. He also designed the seal for the Society of Cincinnati.
ANSWER: Pierre L'Enfant
[10] This building located at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, originally designed by James Hoban, was expanded by Thomas Jefferson when he moved in as President of the United States.
ANSWER: The White House

175.
ID: 13337  | Difficulty:  | Category: Trash | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 12
BONUS: In one parody of this figure, Grover of Sesame Street teaches children how to use the word "on," and a seashell in his hand opens up to "tickets to that thing you love," which melt into diamonds. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this African-American figure first seen in a shower saying "Look at your man, now back to me" and later seen on a horse.
ANSWER: The Man Your Man Could Smell Like [prompt "Isaiah Mustafa;" prompt answers such as "Old Spice guy," though don't let teams know you can prompt them unless you do prompt this]
[10] The Man Your Man Could Smell Like is in ads for this deodorant brand which produces Red Zone body spray. Its other campaigns include "Experience is Everything."
ANSWER: Old Spice [prompt "Procter and Gamble"]
[10] Sesame Street was parodied by the Broadway musical Avenue Q, which itself parodied this newly-dead actor, who in the show sings "You Can Be As Loud As The Hell You Want" and the duet "Schadenfreude" with Nicky.
ANSWER: Gary Coleman

176.
ID: 13338  | Difficulty:  | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 13
BONUS: It began with a document called the Action Programme released shortly after Antonin Novotny's replacement by Alexander Dubcek, who called it "socialism with a human face." For 10 points each:
[10] Name this brief flowering of small markets and freedoms in 1968 communist Czechoslovakia.
ANSWER: Prague Spring
[10] This General-Secretary of the Soviet Union issued his namesake "doctrine" after sending Warsaw Pact troops to crush Prague Spring. His tenure also saw the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan.
ANSWER: Leonid Brezhnev
[10] Soviet tanks had rolled into this country 12 years earlier to depose Imre Nagy [NAJ], who had been installed by popular demand after a revolt against the Communist government. Janos Kadar then took power here.
ANSWER: Hungary [accept Magyarorszag]

177.
ID: 13339  | Difficulty:  | Category: Mythology | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 14
BONUS: This deity, son of Coatlicue, led the Nahua people out of Aztlan and commanded them never to return. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this deity of war and the sun, whose name translates as "blue hummingbird of the left."
ANSWER: Huitzilopochtli
[10] Huitzilopochtli was the patron deity of this place, the capital city of the Nahua people, perhaps better known as the Aztecs.
ANSWER: Tenochtitlan
[10] This brother of Huitzilopochtli is the god of the morning star and created mankind for the fifth time. He is often depicted as a feathered serpent.
ANSWER: Quetzalcoatl [or Quetzalcohuatl]

178.
ID: 13340  | Difficulty:  | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 15
BONUS: Linear combination of these atomic objects can determine the shape of molecular ones. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these regions surrounding the nucleus in which electrons are found. They build up via the Aufbau principle and can be labeled s, p, d, or f.
ANSWER: atomic orbitals [do not accept "shell" or "subshell"]
[10] This principle states that no two electrons in an atom will have the same set of quantum numbers determining their orbital configuration. It implies that electrons paired in a filled orbital will always have opposite spins.
ANSWER: Pauli exclusion principle
[10] This rule implies that all orbitals of a given energy level and shape will fill with one electron each, all with parallel spin, before any of them gets a second electron of opposite spin.
ANSWER: Hund's [first] rule of maximum multiplicity [accept "rule of maximum multiplicity"; be nice and accept Hund's rules]

179.
ID: 13342  | Difficulty:  | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 17
BONUS: He published several collections of keyboard music entitled Clavier-Ãœbung, the second of which consists of an Overture in the French Style and an Italian Concerto. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this German Baroque composer whose other keyboard works include the Goldberg Variations and a Toccata and Fugue in D minor.
ANSWER: Johann Sebastian Bach
[10] This collection of keyboard music by Bach consists of two books of twenty-four preludes and fugues, one in every major and minor key.
ANSWER: The Well-Tempered Clavier [or Das wohltemperierte Klavier]
[10] Six of these suites for keyboard make up Bach's collection Clavier-Ãœbung I. A famous chaconne in D minor appears in the second of his three for solo violin, which appear in a collection with three sonatas.
ANSWER: partitas

180.
ID: 13343  | Difficulty:  | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 18
BONUS: Answer these questions about Britain's struggle against France during the Napoleonic Wars, for 10 points each.
[10] Gebhard von Blucher led Prussians on the winning side of this June 1815 battle in Belgium, at which the Duke of Wellington finally defeated Napoleon.
ANSWER: Battle of Waterloo
[10] Horatio Nelson died leading British ships to victory over the French and Spanish navies at this October 1805 sea battle off the coast of Spain.
ANSWER: Battle of Trafalgar
[10] After Trafalgar, Napoleon issued the Berlin Decrees to begin instituting this policy, which forbade so-called "allies" of the French Empire from trading with England. After Russia withdrew from it, Napoleon chose to invade.
ANSWER: the Continental System [accept Continental Blockade or Blocus continental]

181.
ID: 13344  | Difficulty:  | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature European
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 19
BONUS: Tom fights with his siblings Antoine and Christian over inheritance from their father Jean, while his son, Hanno, dies of typhoid. For 10 points each:
[10] These are all members of what title family from Lubeck, which appear in its author's first novel?
ANSWER: Buddenbrooks
[10] Buddenbrooks is by this German author who wrote of Aschenbach's expiring in the grip of illicit passion for Tadzio in Death in Venice.
ANSWER: Thomas Mann
[10] Hans Castorp spends seven years in a Swiss sanatorium run by Hofrat Behrens in this novel by Thomas Mann.
ANSWER: The Magic Mountain [or Der Zauberberg]

182.
ID: 13453  | Difficulty:  | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 2
BONUS: Brass instruments are an integral part of the modern orchestra. Answer some questions about them.
[10] Brass instruments are an integral part of the modern orchestra. Answer some questions about them
ANSWER: embouchure
[10] A tight embouchure is required to play this instrument, whose modern form comes with 3 piston valves. Famous performers of this instrument include Louis Armstrong and Herb Alpert.
ANSWER: trumpet
[10] This instruments is often keyed in F and played with a conical mouthpiece. The right hand of the player is usually stuffed into the bell to lower the pitch of this instrument, whose ancestor was featured in four Mozart conciertos written for Joseph Leutgeb.
ANSWER: French (but really German) horn

183.
ID: 15858  | Difficulty:  | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 1
BONUS: This group's poetic muse was Thomas Rowley.
[10] The victory at Bennington contributed to British General John Burgoyne's loss to Horatio Gates at this 1777 battle in New York that is commonly cited as a turning point in the war, as it brought France into the conflict on the side of the Americans.
ANSWER: Saratoga
[10] Name this group led by Ethan Allen which operated out of modern day Vermont. It played a key role in capturing Fort Ticonderoga and winning the Battle of Bennington during the Revolutionary War.
ANSWER: Green Mountain Boys
[10] After the capture of Ticonderoga, this officer supervised the transfer of cannons from the fort to Boston. He would later serve as a presidential Cabinet member.
ANSWER: Henry Knox

184.
ID: 15859  | Difficulty:  | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 2
BONUS: Louis Guglielmi, or "Louiguy", wrote the melody for this song, which is a recurring theme in the film Sabrina. 
[10] Name this 1945 song, written and famously performed by an artist whose other hits include "Milord" and "Non, je ne regrette rien". It describes what the speaker sees "When he takes me in his arms / and speaks softly to me".
ANSWER: "La Vie en rose" [accept translations like "Life in Rosy Hues" or "Life Through Rose-Colored Glasses" or "Life in Pink"; by Edith Piaf]
[10] The American mezzo-soprano Rose Bampton notably sang in the New York premiere of this composer's vocal pieces "Dover Beach" and "With Rue My Heart is Laden". He won a Pulitzer for his opera Vanessa.
ANSWER: Samuel Barber [or Samuel Osmond Barber II]
[10] British bass Peter Rose is apparently most famous for his performance in this Benjamin Britten opera based on a Shakespeare play. Rose sang the role of Bottom, who becomes the object of Titania's affections in a prank played by Puck.
ANSWER: A Midsummer Night's Dream

185.
ID: 15860  | Difficulty:  | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 3
BONUS: In one of this man's novels, Charles Gould owns the San Tome silver mine in Sulaco, the capital of Costaguana. 
[10] Name this Polish-born British author of Nostromo, who wrote about Charles Marlow's search for the ivory trader Mr. Kurtz in Heart of Darkness.
ANSWER: Joseph Conrad [or Josef Konrad Korzeniowski]
[10] In this short story by Conrad, Leggatt flees from the Sephora and becomes the title figure by revealing the fact that he murdered a crew mate to the story's protagonist, an unnamed captain of another ship
ANSWER: The Secret Sharer
[10] This Conrad novel is commonly thought of as his response to Crime and Punishment. In it, Victor Haldin assassinates the cruel Minister of State Mr. de P-- and seeks shelter with the student Razumov.
ANSWER: Under Western Eyes

186.
ID: 15861  | Difficulty:  | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Other
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 4
BONUS: This type of seismic wave is produced by the interaction of P and S waves with the Earth.
[10] Saturated soils can lose their strength or stiffness as a result of earthquakes, a phenomenon known by this term.
ANSWER: soil liquefaction
[10] Identify this type of seismic wave that includes Love and Rayleigh waves.
ANSWER: surface wave
[10] These phenomena release seismic waves, which manifest as a shaking of the ground. earthquakes [or tremor; or temblor]
ANSWER: earthquakes [or tremor; or temblor]

187.
ID: 15863  | Difficulty:  | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 6
BONUS: Domenico Scarlatti wrote 555 sonatas for this instrument, which along with the violin and the flute is part of the concertino group in Bach's Brandenburg Concerto No. 5. 
[10] Name this keyboard instrument, a predecessor to the piano whose family includes the spinet and the virginal. Its sound is produced from strings that are plucked when keys are pressed.
ANSWER: harpsichord
[10] This Baroque composer, the most eminent member of a French musical family, wrote the didactic treatise The Art of Harpsichord Playing. His four volumes of harpsichord pieces are divided into 27 ordres and include pieces like "The Mysterious Barricades."
ANSWER: FranÃ§ois Couperin
[10] Couperin helped introduce this genre to France. His eight works in this genre include Le Parnasse, dedicated to Arcangelo Corelli, whose Opus 1 through 4 are in this genre. Bach's Musical Offering concludes with one for flute and violin.
ANSWER: trio sonatas

188.
ID: 15864  | Difficulty:  | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 7
BONUS: In A General Theory of Magic, Marcel Mauss and Henri Hubert argue this concept is universal using analogies with orenda, hau, and manitou, which were contested by people like Ian Hogbin and Mircea Eliade. 
[10]  Name this concept in Pacific Island cultures, first described by Robert Codrington, denoting spiritual power accumulating in people, places, or things. Raymond Firth describes it as a bearer of prestige.
ANSWER: mana
[10] This French anthropologist used mana as an example of a "floating signifier" lacking a stable referent. He used the term "mytheme" to denote basic units of myth and distinguished the engineer from the primitive bricoleur.
ANSWER: Claude LÃ©vi-Strauss
[10] In this Polynesian archipelago, there were two paths to mana, war and marriage, represented by the gods Ku and Lono. King Kamehameha II broke kapu codes of conduct on this chain, whose traditions include the hula dance.
ANSWER: Hawai'i [or the Hawai'ian Islands]

189.
ID: 15865  | Difficulty:  | Category: Mythology | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 8
BONUS: Identify the following about mostly-mythical bards and poets
[10] This Welsh bard was born Gwion Bach, a servant of the magician Ceridwen, but was given a new name meaning "shining brow" after he was adopted by Elphin
ANSWER: Taliesin
[10] This man's mother Sadhbh ("sive") was turned into a deer, explaining the tuft of fur on his forehead. James MacPherson attributed a series of poems to this son of Finn MacCool.
ANSWER: Oisin [or Ossian; or Osheen]
[10] In his namesake epic poem, Sundiata was assisted by Balla FassÃ©kÃ©, one of these West African troubadors. They are sometimes referred to as "praise singers".
ANSWER: griots [or djeli]

190.
ID: 15866  | Difficulty:  | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature European
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 9
BONUS: This author's uncle Vasily wrote the comic masterpiece A Dangerous Neighbor, while his great-grandfather Abram Gannibal was the subject of his unfinished historical novel Peter the Great's Negro. 
[10] Name this Russian poet who, when he wasn't fighting any of the many duels in which he got involved, wrote the play Boris Godunov and the verse novel Eugene Onegin.
ANSWER: Alexander Pushkin [or Aleksandr Sergeyevich Pushkin]
[10] Evgeni dreams about his love for Parasha in this Pushkin poem, during the course of which a flood of the river Neva causes Evgeni to curse a statue of Peter the Great, which comes to life and chases Evgeni.
ANSWER: "The Bronze Horseman: A Petersburg Tale" [or "Mednyi Vsadnik"]
[10] A Pushkin poem with this title was adapted into an opera by Cesar Cui. Zhilin and Kostlin are kidnapped by Tartars in a Leo Tolstoy short story of this name.
ANSWER: "A Prisoner in the Caucasus" [or "The Captive in the Caucasus"; or "Kavkazskii plennik"; or really any combination of words that indicate a prisoner or captive in or of the Caucasus]

191.
ID: 15867  | Difficulty:  | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 10
BONUS: When molar terms are used, this quantity is known as molarity
[10] Name this term from chemistry that denotes the amount of a particular constituent per unit volume of a mixture.
ANSWER: molarity
[10] Dividing the molarity by the equivalence factor gives this quantity, another form of chemical concentration
ANSWER: normality
[10] By rearranging a chemical law for ideal mixtures, one can find that this measure of concentration for a particular component, denoted x-sub-i, is equal to the partial pressure of the component divided by the vapor pressure of the pure component
ANSWER: mole fraction [or molar fraction; or amount-of substance fraction; or number fraction]

192.
ID: 15869  | Difficulty:  | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 12
BONUS: Adoration, one of Francois Boucher's few religious paintings, uses this medium over black chalk on paper. 
[10] Identify this type of paint that consists of large particles of pigment, water, gum arabic, and sometimes an inert white pigment, which dries to a much more opaque surface than standard watercolors.
ANSWER: gouache [or guache; or guazzo]
[10] This artist's series Blue Nude II, like many of his late-career cutouts, used gouache-painted paper. His earlier Blue Nude (Souvenir de Biskra) is more characteristic of Fauvism, a movement he co-founded with Andre Derain.
ANSWER: Henri Matisse [or Henri-Emile-Benoit Matisse]
[10] Matisse included a variation on the circle of figures from his painting La Danse in the background of this large 1906 painting, that also shows nudes embracing, laying on the yellow grass, and playing pipes.
ANSWER: The Joy of Life [or Le bonheur de vivre]

193.
ID: 15871  | Difficulty:  | Category: Mythology | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 14
BONUS: An important rite in this celebration is the ritual washing and dressing of a plantain tree, and it often includes a dhunuchi dance during aarti. 
[10] Name this celebration during the last five days of Navratri, perhaps the biggest yearly festival in eastern India, especially Bengal. Its namesake aspect of Parvati is the goddess of strength and victory of good over evil.
ANSWER: Durga Puja [or Durgotsava; or Sharadotsava]
[10] Along with Durga or Parvati, another member of the Hindu Tridevi is this consort of Brahma and goddess of knowledge and the arts. She is often portrayed playing a veena.
ANSWER: Saraswati
[10] The final member of the Tridevi is Lakshmi, who is worshipped on this holiday during which people light small earthenware lamps. This "Festival of Lights" also celebrates the return of Rama from exile
ANSWER: Diwali [or Deepavali]

194.
ID: 15872  | Difficulty:  | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature Classical
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 15
BONUS: . According to various apocryphal accounts, this author either choked to death on grapes, died of happiness after winning his last City Dionysica, or ran out of breath permanently while reciting from his play Antigone. 
[10] Identify this ancient Greek tragedian who is most famous for his Theban trilogy, which begins with Oedipus Rex.
ANSWER: Sophocles
[10] Aristotle's analysis of Oedipus Rex in his Poetics mentions the revelation of Oedpius's parentage as an example of this literary concept, which roughly means "a reversal of circumstances". It is often caused by anagnorisis.
ANSWER: peripeteia [or peripety]
[10] In this Sophocles play, jealousy over the captive Iole causes Deianeira send a poisoned shirt that she thought was a love charm to her husband Heracles. At its end, the dying Heracles orders their son Hyllus to marry Iole.
ANSWER: The Women of Trachis [or The Trachiniae]

195.
ID: 15873  | Difficulty:  | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 16
BONUS: . One pathway to accomplish this task responds to modifications like oxidation, alkylation, and deamination, and begins when a DNA glycosylase creates an AP site
[10] Name this task, for which one mechanism in E. coli uses the UvrABC endonuclease. Problems with that nucleotide excision-based mechanism in humans may cause Cockayne's syndrome or xeroderma pigmentosum.
ANSWER: repairing DNA [accept obvious equivalents]
[10] This common mechanism for repairing double-stranded breaks begins when Ku recognizes the break site and recruits DNA-PKcs, after which terminal end processing and ligation can occur. This mechanism plays a role in V(D)J recombination.
ANSWER: non-homologous end-joining [or NHEJ]
[10] Errors in non-homologous end-joining may result in the fusion of these repetitive protective sequences at the ends of chromatids, which tend to shorten over time.
ANSWER: telomeres

196.
ID: 17984  | Difficulty:  | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 1
BONUS:  Answer the following about education reform in 19th century America, for 10 points each.
[10]  This so-called "Schoolmaster of the Republic" improved the textbooks of the early 19th century. This creator of widely used "reading lessons" edited a dictionary that he co-names with George Merriam.
ANSWER: Noah Webster
[10] This member of the Massachusetts Board of Education reformed much of the public school system, making the school day longer and setting up "normal schools" for teachers to be trained.
ANSWER: Horace Mann
[10] In 1837, this college in Ohio started to admit both men and women into its program. This college became involved in the abolition movement under its president Charles Grandison Finney.
ANSWER: Oberlin College

197.
ID: 17985  | Difficulty:  | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 2
BONUS: Measurements of this value are a key part of the psychology research program called behavioral genetics. For 10 points each:
[10] Name both the lower bound and the upper bound on measurements of heritability. Elsewhere in social science, these are the lower and upper bounds on R^2 ("R squared") in simple linear regression.
ANSWER: 0.0 and 1.0, inclusive
[10] Name this quantity that measures the extent to which differences between individuals in a population can be attributed to differences in genes.
ANSWER: heritability [or word forms]
[10] Many studies of heritability use sets of these people to partition the effects of genetic and environmental variation. Sets of these people can be dizygotic or monozygotic, and have identical genetic codes in the latter case.
ANSWER: twins [or monozygotic twins; or dizygotic twins; or identical twins; or fraternal twins; or n-tuplets]

198.
ID: 17987  | Difficulty:  | Category: Mythology | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 4
BONUS: Answer the following about food in Japanese mythology, for 10 points each. 
[10] Tsukuyomi, the brother of this female kami, killed Uke Mochi because he was so disgusted with her unsanitary food preparation. This goddess once hid inside a cave after her brother vandalized her rice fields, and had to be lured out with Uzume's dancing. 
ANSWER:  Amaterasu [or Amaterasu Omikami]
[10]  This indigenous religion of Japan worships many kami associated with food and agriculture, such as the harvest god Tano and Uke Mochi, who produces food from her own body. 
ANSWER: Shinto [or kami-no-michi]
[10] This androgynous kami of rice, sake, and millet is sometimes said to be the husband or wife of Uke Mochi. Pure-white foxes called kitsune serve as his messengers. 
ANSWER:  Inari [or O-inari; or Inari Okami] 

199.
ID: 17988  | Difficulty:  | Category: Current Events | Subcategory: None
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 5
BONUS:  A chain of one of these institutions called Corinthian went bankrupt in May 2015 and was found to have lied about its job placement rates. For 10 points each:
[10] Although one can receive a Pell Grant to attend one of these types of trade schools, data on their notoriously low salary rates for graduates isn't available on the Obama administration's College Scorecard website. One can train to be an esthetician or a desairologist at these schools.
ANSWER: cosmetology schools [or beauty schools] 
[10]  Identify these institutions, which in the past 15 years have disproportionately caused an increase in debt in younger Americans.
ANSWER: for-profit universities [or for-profit colleges; prompt on colleges or universities]
[10] The Department of Defense recently announced that it would no longer provide funds to study at this largest for-profit university chain, owned by the Apollo Group, which has greatly expanded since its first class of eight students in Arizona in 1976.
ANSWER:  University of Phoenix

200.
ID: 17990  | Difficulty:  | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 7
BONUS: During saponification, this reaction breaks ester bonds in triglycerides to form a soap. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this cleavage of a carbon-oxygen bond by the addition of a water molecule. Phosphates are usually removed by this reaction.
ANSWER:  hydrolysis
[10] During saponification, fat droplets are removed from soap by this technique, where a volatile substance is constantly boiling and condensing back into the reaction vessel.
ANSWER:  refluxing
[10] The most common ingredient in soap is the sodium salt of stearic acid, which contains this many carbons. Stable metal complexes are predicted by using a rule named for this many electrons.
ANSWER: eighteen electron rule

201.
ID: 17991  | Difficulty:  | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 8
BONUS: Max Beckmann completed nine works of this type during his lifetime, including The Argonauts and Departure. For 10 points each:
[10] Identify this type of work, usually made up of a central scene and two hinged wings. The Portinari Altarpiece is an example of a work of this type.
ANSWER: triptych
[10] This Netherlandish artist used the triptych form to divide his Garden of Earthly Delights into scenes of paradise, a sinful life on Earth, and damnation.
ANSWER: Hieronymus Bosch [or Jheronimus Bosch; or Jheronimus van Aken; or Joen van Aken]
[10] Paradise and damnation also flank this other triptych by Hieronymus Bosch. In the central scene of this painting, a concert takes place on the title vehicle, which is crushing several people as it makes its way across the landscape.
ANSWER: The Haywain Triptych

202.
ID: 17992  | Difficulty:  | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 9
BONUS: The color charge was introduced to explain why three of these particles with otherwise identical quantum numbers could coexist. For 10 points each:
[10] Name these particles that have six possible flavors. One of these particles combine with its antiparticle to form a meson.
ANSWER:  quarks
[10] This is the lightest flavor of quark. A proton contains two of these quarks, whereas a neutron contains one.
ANSWER: up quark
[10] This quantity was introduced to differentiate between two particles, like the proton and neutron, that behave identically under the strong nuclear force but differently under the electromagnetic force.
ANSWER: isospin [or isotopic spin or isobaric spin] 

203.
ID: 17994  | Difficulty:  | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Computer Science
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 11
BONUS: The bidirectional variant of this algorithm is sometimes named cocktail shaker sort. For 10 points each:
[10] Bubble sort has this worst case asymptotic runtime. Please express your answer with a tight bound using either big O or big Theta notation.
ANSWER: n squared [or big O of n squared or big Theta of n squared; do not accept or prompt on "n"]
[10] Name this simple sorting algorithm that checks to see if two elements of a list are in order and swaps them if they are not. It proceeds down the list and repeats until no swaps have been made on a single pass.
ANSWER: bubble sort [or sinking sort]
[10] John von Neumann developed this divide-and-conquer sorting algorithm in which a list of unsorted numbers is split recursively, sorted, and then recombined using the namesake operation.
ANSWER: mergesort

204.
ID: 17995  | Difficulty:  | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 12
BONUS:  This author, who coined the term "Bible Belt," noted that "down there, a poet is now almost as rare as an oboe-player" in an essay attacking the anti-intellectualism of the American South, entitled "The Sahara of the Bozart." For 10 points each:
[10] Mencken once described the value of this novel about a friend of Tom Sawyer and the runaway slave Jim as "worth the whole work of Emerson with two-thirds of the work of Whitman thrown in."
ANSWER: The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn
[10] Name this author who wrote for the Baltimore Sun and founded The American Mercury with George Jean Nathan.
ANSWER: Henry Louis Mencken [or H. L. Mencken]
[10]  H. L. Mencken was one of the co-founders of Black Mask, the first magazine to serialize this Dashiell Hammett novel which opens with Sam Spade learning of the death of his partner Miles Archer.
ANSWER: The Maltese Falcon

205.
ID: 17996  | Difficulty:  | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 13
BONUS: A concert overture incorporated into this suite begins with woodwinds playing the chords E majorB major-A minor-E major, a motif repeated as a character recites the "If we shadows have offended speech" at its conclusion. For 10 points each:
[10] Both Mendelssohn's third symphony and his concert overture Fingal's Cave were inspired by his visit to this country.
ANSWER: Scotland [prompt on Great Britain; prompt on United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland or UK; do not accept or prompt on "England"] 
[10] This early Romantic composer wrote that incidental music to A Midsummer Night's Dream, along with the Italian Symphony and many Songs Without Words.
ANSWER: Felix Mendelssohn-Bartholdy
[10] Name this orchestral suite that also includes the fairy lullaby "Ye Spotted Snakes." Its wickedly fast scherzo ends on a devilish flute solo.
ANSWER:  incidental music to A Midsummer Night's Dream

206.
ID: 17997  | Difficulty:  | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 14
BONUS: This man's daughter, the princess Anna, wrote a history of his reign. For 10 points each:
[10] The Alexiad also discusses Alexios's reluctant execution of a leader of the Bogomils, a dualistic heresy that originated among these people. Basil II earned his nickname by defeating these people at Kleidon.
ANSWER: Bulgarians [or Bulgars; or Balgari]
[10] Anna's Alexiad describes how Alexios' appeals led to this 1096 campaign, which successfully captured Jerusalem. This campaign began with cries of "God wills it!" at the Council of Clermont.
ANSWER:  the First Crusade
[10] Name this emperor who fought against Robert Guiscard and the Normans at the Battle of Dyrrachium. He also sent ambassadors to meet with Pope Urban II at the Council of Piacenza.
ANSWER: Alexios I Komnenos [or Alexius I Comnenus]

207.
ID: 17998  | Difficulty:  | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 15
BONUS: The speaker of this poem warns that "A honey tongue, a heart of gall, is fancy's spring, but sorrow's fall." For 10 points each:
[10] In a poem describing a vision of the tomb of Petrarch's Laura, the speaker of a Raleigh poem suddenly comes across this figure. This allegorical figure, also known as Gloriana, titles an epic poem by Edmund Spenser.
ANSWER:  the Faerie Queene
[10] "The Nymph's Reply to the Shepherd" was written by this 16th century English poet. He attacked "men of high condition" and "church and court" in his poem "The Lie" and was ultimately executed for treason. 
ANSWER:  Sir Walter Raleigh [or Sir Walter Ralegh]
[10] Identify this poem whose speaker declines "to live with thee and be thy love." This poem is a response to a poem written by Christopher Marlowe.
ANSWER: "The Nymph's Reply to the Shepherd"

208.
ID: 18000  | Difficulty:  | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 17
BONUS:  A subclass of these organisms contains only one living member, the ginkgo. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this group of plants which produce "naked seeds," in contrast to the flowering plant angiosperms. Conifers and cycads are examples of them.
ANSWER: gymnosperms
[10] Cycads also produce cones called strobili that contain hundreds of these structures. These structures are the site of meiosis in plants, forming namesake haploid cells, and four of them are located in each anther of an angiosperm.
ANSWER: sporangia [or microsporangia; or megasporangia]
[10] During alternation of generations, a spore eventually develops into this multicellular organism by mitosis. In vascular plants, it is haploid, unlike its larger counterpart.
ANSWER: gametophyte 

209.
ID: 18001  | Difficulty:  | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 18
BONUS: This country encouraged athletic achievement with programs such as Prepared for Labor and Defense, or the GTO. For 10 points each: 
[10] The Soviet Union also hosted massive sports competitions named for this person every four years in Moscow. A revolutionary group named for this person was led by Karl Liebknecht and the author of the "Junius pamphlet."
ANSWER: Spartacus [or Spartakiads; or Spartacist League]
[10] This capital of the USSR was the site of the 1980 Olympics, as well as frequent "physical culture" parades in Red Square. 
ANSWER: Moscow [or Moskva] 
[10] Name this country whose Olympic highlights include the violent "Blood in the Water" match with a southern neighbor. It hosted the widely-boycotted 1980 Summer Olympics.
ANSWER: Soviet Union [or USSR; or Union of Soviet Socialist Republics; or CCCP; prompt on Russia] 

210.
ID: 18003  | Difficulty:  | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Math
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 20
BONUS:  This man's principle of the identity of indiscernibles states that two distinct objects cannot have all of their properties in common. For 10 points each:
[10] Leibniz also argued that the basic units of the universe are these simple, "windowless" entities, which are non-extended and hence immaterial.
ANSWER: monads 
[10] Gottfried Leibniz is credited with developing this branch of mathematics independently from Isaac Newton. Leibniz's notation is used to express integrals in this field.
ANSWER: calculus
[10] Name this philosophical polymath who grounded his thought in the principle of sufficient reason and the principle of contradiction. His "mill argument" aims to show that an assembly of physical parts cannot constitute a mind.
ANSWER: Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz [or Gottfried Wilhelm von Leibniz]

211.
ID: 18004  | Difficulty:  | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: Unknown | Round: [missing] | Number: 21
BONUS:  This composer withdrew his only opera, The Maiden in the Tower, after its fourth performance, after which it wasn't heard publicly for nearly a hundred more years. For 10 points each:
[10] Like Finlandia, this symphony by Sibelius became popular among Finnish patriots, since it was composed in Italy and thought to have escaped Russian influence. Its slow movement was inspired by a vision of Don Juan.
ANSWER: Symphony No. 2 in D major [or Sibelius's second symphony] 
[10] Name this composer of such nationalistic music as the Karelia Suite and Finlandia.
ANSWER: Jean Sibelius [or Johan Julius Christian Sibelius]
[10] Finlandia is a piece in this genre of orchestral music. Pieces in this genre are typically only in a single movement and illustrate a work of art or literature.
ANSWER: tone poem [or orchestral poem; or symphonic poem]

212.
ID: 18383  | Difficulty:  | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: Unknown | Round: 2 | Number: 20
BONUS: Answer the following about testing general relativity before the discovery of gravitational waves, for 10 points each.
[10] This form of frame-dragging causes nearby gyroscopes to slightly change their precession. This effect was first measured in 1997.
ANSWER: Lense-Thirring precession or effect
[10] This GR phenomenon comes in strong, weak, and micro variants, the last of which has been helpful in finding extrasolar planets. This phenomenon is also responsible for creating Einstein crosses and rings.
ANSWER: gravitational lensing [prompt on “lensing”]
[10] The perihelion of this planet shifts toward the sun to a greater degree than what Newton's laws forecast, but its movement matches the predictions of GR exactly. Since this planet is the closest to the sun, it would show the most noticeable effects of the sun bending space-time.
ANSWER: Mercury

213.
ID: 38951  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature European
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet N (MIT, UIUC A, and Virginia Tech) | Number: 21
BONUS: Rather than trying to portray his physical likeness, Auguste Rodin created a sculpture of this author based on what he believed to be his writing persona. For 10 points each:
[10] Name this French author who included the novel Le Père Goriot (“luh pair gor-YO”) in his collection The Human Comedy.
ANSWER: Honoré de Balzac
[10] The original title of The Wild Ass’s Skin puns on this French word, which can refer either to a particular type of hide or to an emotion.
ANSWER: chagrin &lt;European Literature&gt;
[10] In a novel from The Human Comedy, Raphaël de Valentin (“val-on-TAN”) acquires a magical wish-granting piece of the skin of one of these animals.
ANSWER: wild ass [accept The Wild Ass’s Skin]

214.
ID: 38707  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet C (MSU A, NYU B, UCLA A, and Virginia A) | Number: 8
BONUS: This book was adapted from an email sent to the mother of a girl named Chizalum, whom the author hopes “will be full of opinions” from “an informed, humane, and broad-minded place.” For 10 points each:
[10] Name this 2017 epistolary book subtitled “A Feminist Manifesto in Fifteen Suggestions,” which consists of a single long letter detailing how to raise a feminist daughter.
ANSWER: Dear Ijeawele, or A Feminist Manifesto in Fifteen Suggestions
[10] Adichie’s “The Danger of a Single Story” is one of the most popular of the talks put on by this organization whose slogan is “Ideas worth spreading.”
ANSWER: TED Conferences LLC [or TED talks] &lt;World Literature&gt;
[10] Dear Ijeawele is by this author of the book-length essay We Should All Be Feminists and the novel Americanah.
ANSWER: Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie (“uh-DEE-chee-ay”)

215.
ID: 38708  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet C (MSU A, NYU B, UCLA A, and Virginia A) | Number: 9
BONUS: The state of these systems can be visualized with Bloch vectors. For 10 points each:
[10] An early success for trapped-ion quantum computing was demonstrating this two-qubit gate using Beryllium. This gate, which conditionally flips the computational basis states of one qubit, forms a universal set with appropriate single-qubit gates.
ANSWER: C-NOT [or CNOT; or controlled-NOT; prompt on controlled unitary gates; do not accept or prompt on “NOT”] &lt;Physics&gt;
[10] One physical realization of quantum computing uses qubits encoded in the hyperfine state of laser-cooled particles in one of these devices. A scheme for these devices developed by Wolfgang Paul uses static and RF electric fields and is common in mass spec devices and quantum computing experiments.
ANSWER: ion traps [or quadrupole ion traps; prompt on Paul traps by asking “what does the device trap?”]
[10] Name these basic units of quantum information that can be encoded into any two-state quantum system.
ANSWER: qubits [or quantum bits]

216.
ID: 38709  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet C (MSU A, NYU B, UCLA A, and Virginia A) | Number: 10
BONUS: The British used the Yamasee and Cherokee to fight this tribe in their namesake war from 1711 to 1715. For 10 points each:
[10] This uprising in North Carolina from 1765 to 1771 was fought against colonial officials such as governor William Tryon. It is often viewed as a precursor to the American Revolution.
ANSWER: War of the Regulation [accept Regulator Movement] &lt;American History&gt;
[10] Before their northwards migration, the Tuscarora were based in this colony. The Roanoke colony was established on land that became part of this colony.
ANSWER: North Carolina [or NC]
[10] Name this Native American tribe whose Chief Blount migrated this tribe north after killing the leader of its southern branch, Chief Hancock. Members of this tribe who stayed behind settled on reserved land in present-day Bertie County.
ANSWER: Tuscarora [accept Tuscarora War]

217.
ID: 38710  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature European
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet C (MSU A, NYU B, UCLA A, and Virginia A) | Number: 11
BONUS: In a story in this collection, the narrator and Lieutenant Fenimore compete for the affection of Ursula as the three of them travel through space on parallel paths, never to meet. For 10 points each:
[10] In a story from Cosmicomics, Qfwfq makes one of these things in space, only for Kgwgk (“kuh-GOOG-kuh”) to destroy it. An Italian author who co-founded the journal Versus for the study of these things argued in a 1975 book that “natural” examples of these things deserve as much consideration as “artificial” ones.
ANSWER: signs [do not accept or prompt on “symbols”] (The other Italian author is Umberto Eco.) &lt;European Literature&gt;
[10] Cosmicomics is by this Italian author of If on a winter’s night a traveler.
ANSWER: Italo Calvino
[10] Name this collection that includes the stories “The Form of Space” and “The Distance of the Moon.” Most of its stories are narrated by a being called Qfwfq (“kuh-FOOF-kuh”).
ANSWER: Cosmicomics [or Le cosmicomiche]

218.
ID: 38711  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Philosophy | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet C (MSU A, NYU B, UCLA A, and Virginia A) | Number: 12
BONUS: Laurence BonJour developed a set of five criteria for this quality, one of which states that this quality increases in proportion to the presence of inferential connections between component beliefs. For 10 points each:
[10] This German philosopher argued that coherence represents the criterion of “empirical truth” in his Critique of Pure Reason.
ANSWER: Immanuel Kant &lt;Philosophy&gt;
[10] A 1989 essay by this philosopher argued that coherence can constitute a test for whether objective truth conditions are satisfied. This American developed his theory of “anomalous monism” in his essay “Mental Events.”
ANSWER: Donald Davidson
[10] Name this quality. In contrast to foundationalists, philosophers who hold a position named for this quality contend that a belief is justified only when it has this quality with respect to a broader set or system of beliefs.
ANSWER: coherence [accept word forms, such as coherent and coheres; accept epistemic coherentism]

219.
ID: 38712  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Religion | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet C (MSU A, NYU B, UCLA A, and Virginia A) | Number: 13
BONUS: This event occurred at the conclusion of a 12-year famine, and its backdrop was a council at Pataliputra. For 10 points each:
[10] If you practice ahimsa and are a good enough Jain, your soul obtains true knowledge of the Universe. This Sanskrit word is used to indicate such omniscient souls, including those of the Tirthankaras.
ANSWER: arihant [or jina] &lt;Religion&gt;
[10] Members of the Svetambara school of Jainism wear those white masks as a way of adhering to this principle. Other Jain extensions of this principle include vegetarianism.
ANSWER: ahimsa [or non-violence; accept answers indicating that you should not harm living beings]
[10] Name this dispute that began over the authenticity of the twelve Angas. It created a group of adherents who sometimes wear a white cloth over the mouth called a muhapatti.
ANSWER: the Great Jain Schism [accept the schism between the white-clad and sky-clad or between the Svetambara and Digambara]

220.
ID: 38713  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet C (MSU A, NYU B, UCLA A, and Virginia A) | Number: 14
BONUS: Answer the following about Russia’s Siberian and Far Eastern federal subjects, for 10 points each.
[10] The Lena Pillars can be found in this largest federal Russian republic, which is also the largest subnational governing body by area in the world. Roughly half of its population is composed of a namesake Turkic ethnic group.
ANSWER: Sakha [or Republic of Sakha (Yakutia); accept either underlined portion] &lt;Geography&gt;
[10] In 1928, the city of Birobidzhan (“bee-roh-bee-JAHN”) was chosen as the center of a still-extant “autonomous oblast” for people of this religion, as part of an effort to create an alternative to Zionism.
ANSWER: Judaism [or Jewish people; or Jews; accept Jewish Autonomous Oblast or Yevreyskaya avtonomnaya oblast]
[10] The documentary Genghis Blues depicts a journey to this republic that borders Mongolia. Kongar-ol Ondar is one of this republic’s master throat singers.
ANSWER: Tuva [or Tyva; or the Tyva Republic; or Tyva Respublika; accept Tannu Tuva]

221.
ID: 38714  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet C (MSU A, NYU B, UCLA A, and Virginia A) | Number: 15
BONUS: This man outlined his motives and past in the Jerilderie (“juh-RIL-duh-ree”) Letter. For 10 points each:
[10] This Australian bushranger was nicknamed “Mad Dog” for his violent mood swings and was known as “the most bloodthirsty ruffian that ever took to the bush.” During one robbery, he sent station hand John McLean to get a doctor, but, fearful that McLean would contact the police, decided to chase him down and shoot him instead.
ANSWER: Dan Morgan [or John Fuller] &lt;World History&gt;
[10] Bushrangers were outlaws in this country, whose unofficial national anthem is “Waltzing Matilda.”
ANSWER: Commonwealth of Australia
[10] Name this bushranger who wore homemade bulletproof armor during his final shootout with police at Glenrowan.
ANSWER: Ned Kelly [or Edward Kelly]

222.
ID: 38715  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Math
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet C (MSU A, NYU B, UCLA A, and Virginia A) | Number: 16
BONUS: Applying a function described by this term on certain special inputs is equivalent to multiplying by a constant eigenvalue. For 10 points each:
[10] In this branch of mathematics, group elements are described as linear maps with composition, or equivalently matrix multiplication, as their group operation.
ANSWER: representation theory &lt;Other Science (Math)&gt;
[10] Linear transformations are conveniently expressed as these objects that are written as two-dimensional arrays. These objects are square when the number of rows equals the number of columns.
ANSWER: matrices [or matrix]
[10] Name this property of a transformation. Functions with this property must map a sum of inputs to the sum of each component mapped individually. Rotations and dilations are transformations for vector spaces that have this property.
ANSWER: linear [or word forms such as linearity; accept linear maps, linear transformations, or linear functions]

223.
ID: 38716  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Trash | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet C (MSU A, NYU B, UCLA A, and Virginia A) | Number: 17
BONUS: The protagonist of this film, one of many roles played by nonprofessional actors, returns from receiving treatment for tonsillitis to find a giant hole in the wall of his room, from which he is evicted. For 10 points each:
[10] De Sica’s films Bicycle Thieves and Shoeshine were two of the first three winners of the honorary version of this Academy Award. Federico Fellini’s La Strada was this category’s first competitive winner, in 1956.
ANSWER: Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film [prompt on partial answers; accept “Oscar” in place of “Academy Award”] &lt;Other Arts&gt;
[10] Zavattini also wrote the screenplay to Bicycle Thieves, which, like Umberto D., was directed by this Italian neorealist filmmaker.
ANSWER: Vittorio De Sica
[10] Name this 1952 film with a screenplay by Cesare Zavattini. A dog named Flike is the only companion of its elderly title character.
ANSWER: Umberto D.

224.
ID: 38717  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet C (MSU A, NYU B, UCLA A, and Virginia A) | Number: 18
BONUS: This character calls Pip “boy” before Pip becomes a gentleman, but after Pip receives his fortune, this man addresses him as “my dear young friend… if you will allow me to call you so.” For 10 points each:
[10] Charles Dickens changed the original ending of Great Expectations on the advice of this novelist, who opened his novel Paul Clifford with the oft-derided phrase “It was a dark and stormy night.”
ANSWER: Edward Bulwer-Lytton &lt;British Literature&gt;
[10] Uncle Pumblechook is the creation of this Victorian novelist, whose other ridiculously-named characters include Martin Chuzzlewit and Nicholas Nickleby.
ANSWER: Charles Dickens
[10] Name this “large hard-breathing middle-aged slow man” from Great Expectations. He pompously takes credit for Pip’s social rise although he has nothing to do with it.
ANSWER: Uncle Pumblechook

225.
ID: 38718  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet C (MSU A, NYU B, UCLA A, and Virginia A) | Number: 19
BONUS: This compound has a metal atom sandwiched by two cyclopentadienyl rings. For 10 points each:
[10] Pauson and Kealy stumbled on ferrocene while attempting to synthesize this molecule, which consists of two cyclopentadiene rings connected by a double bond.
ANSWER: fulvalene [or bicyclopentadienylidene] &lt;Chemistry&gt;
[10] Ferrocene was first synthesized using iron(III) chloride and one of these magnesium halide reagents, which are used to create carbon-carbon bonds. They are named for their French discoverer.
ANSWER: Grignard (“green-YARR”) reagents
[10] Name this molecule with an iron center whose discovery led to the 1973 Nobel Prize for Ernst Fischer and Geoffrey Wilkinson.
ANSWER: ferrocene

226.
ID: 38719  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet C (MSU A, NYU B, UCLA A, and Virginia A) | Number: 20
BONUS: Though she’s not explicitly named, this woman’s beheading in Shaoxing (“shao-sheeng”) is the source of the blood used to soak the bun in the short story “Medicine” by Lu Xun (“loo shwin”). For 10 points each:
[10] Qiu Jin publicly opposed this custom that limited women’s mobility in Imperial China. “Golden lotuses” were the ultimate goal of this process, which began in early childhood.
ANSWER: foot-binding [or binding feet; or chanzu or chihn-juk] &lt;World History&gt;
[10] Qiu Jin attempted to overthrow this last imperial dynasty of China, which was ruled by the Manchus.
ANSWER: Qing Dynasty
[10] Name this 19th-century Chinese anti-Manchu feminist leader. She was executed for plotting the Anqing (“ahn-cheeng”) Uprising.
ANSWER: Qiu Jin (“ch’yoh jeen”) [prompt on Qiu; accept Xuanqing or Jingxiong or Jianhu Nüxia or Woman Knight of Mirror Lake]

227.
ID: 38720  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet C (MSU A, NYU B, UCLA A, and Virginia A) | Number: 21
BONUS: The first law of thermodynamics can be written in terms of differentials of volume and this state function. For 10 points each:
[10] For a two-part probability distribution, x and 1-minus-x, what value of x maximizes the Shannon entropy? This value also maximizes the entropy of mixing for two gas containers of volume x times V and 1-minus-x times V.
ANSWER: one-half [or 0.5; or 50 percent] &lt;Other Science (Mixed)&gt;
[10] The entropy formula can be generalized for a probability distribution over different macrostates, yielding a sum equivalent to the Shannon entropy of the distribution. That formula was derived by this physicist, who also formulated a rule about the number of components and phases in a mixture.
ANSWER: Josiah Willard Gibbs [accept Gibbs phase rule]
[10] Name this quantity that can also be defined statistically, as k times the natural log of the number of microstates corresponding to a macrostate.
ANSWER: entropy [prompt on S]

228.
ID: 38721  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet D (NYU A, Rutgers A, Michigan A, and Oxford A) | Number: 1
BONUS: A detective with this profession discovers Jobter’s attempts to swindle the Crofton family out of an inheritance in R. Austin Freeman’s “The Mysterious Visitor.” For 10 points each:
[10] Albert Campion was originally a parody of Lord Peter Wimsey, a detective created by this author of The Nine Tailors. Her personal favorite of her own works was her translation of the Divine Comedy.
ANSWER: Dorothy Sayers [or Dorothy Leigh Sayers] &lt;British Literature&gt;
[10] Like Freeman, this author worked during the Golden Age of Detective Fiction. She wrote about the sleuth Albert Campion in novels like The Tiger in the Smoke and Sweet Danger.
ANSWER: Margery Allingham [or Margery Louise Allingham]
[10] Give this profession of John Thorndyke. This is also the profession of Sherlock Holmes’s assistant, Watson.
ANSWER: doctor [or physician]

229.
ID: 38722  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Mythology | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet D (NYU A, Rutgers A, Michigan A, and Oxford A) | Number: 2
BONUS: Caer Ibormeith appears as one of these animals with a gold necklace alongside “three fifties” of these animals with silver necklaces when she first meets Aengus. For 10 points each:
[10] This type of fairy is a shoemaker known to hide pots of gold at the ends of rainbows. Their typical green garb has only been around since the 20th century.
ANSWER: leprechauns &lt;Mythology&gt;
[10] Aengus was a member of the Tuatha Dé Danann (“too-uh-huh day DAWN-in”), a group who evolved into the Aos Si (“ace shee”), a group of these creatures. In England, a brownie is one of these creatures who helps with household chores at night.
ANSWER: fairies [or fairy; accept Daoine Sídhe]
[10] Name these animals. The children of Lir are turned into these animals by their mother Aoife (“EE-fuh”) and consigned to that fate until St. Patrick can liberate them.
ANSWER: swans

230.
ID: 38723  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet D (NYU A, Rutgers A, Michigan A, and Oxford A) | Number: 3
BONUS: This man declared that “Under the weight of recent history, I did what people do when words fail them” after performing a spontaneous action. For 10 points each:
[10] Brandt’s tenure as chancellor was cut short when this personal assistant of his was revealed to be an East German Stasi (“STAH-zee”) agent. Brandt had previously taken this man on a private vacation to Norway with him.
ANSWER: Günter Guillaume (“gee-YOHM”) &lt;European History&gt;
[10] Willy Brandt was a chancellor of this country, which was governed from the city of Bonn. Its “economic miracle” was engineered by Ludwig Erhard.
ANSWER: West Germany [accept Federal Republic of Germany or FRG; accept Bundesrepublik Deutschland or BRD; do not accept or prompt on “Germany”]
[10] Name this leader who fell to his knees in front of the Warsaw Ghetto Memorial in 1970. This leader of his country’s Social Democratic Party won the 1971 Nobel Peace Prize.
ANSWER: Willy Brandt (“VILL-ee BRAHNT”) [or Herbert Ernst Karl Frahm]

231.
ID: 38724  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet D (NYU A, Rutgers A, Michigan A, and Oxford A) | Number: 4
BONUS: In the dedication of a piano suite, this composer wrote, “To my dear little Chouchou (“shoo-shoo”), with tender apologies from her father for what follows.” For 10 points each:
[10] The middle section of “Golliwog’s Cakewalk,” the ragtime-inspired final movement of Children’s Corner, parodies a motif from this opera. Each quotation, marked avec une grande émotion (“ah-VEK oon GROND ay-mose-YAWN”), is interspersed with banjo imitations.
ANSWER: Tristan und Isolde [or Tristan and Isolde] (The quoted motif is the Liebestod.) &lt;Music&gt;
[10] The first movement of Children’s Corner parodies this Italian-born composer’s set of keyboard studies Gradus ad Parnassum. This piano pedagogue competed against Mozart in a piano duel in 1781.
ANSWER: Muzio Clementi
[10] Name this French composer of Children’s Corner who wrote another piano suite called Suite Bergamasque, whose third movement is “Clair de lune.”
ANSWER: Claude Debussy [or Achille-Claude Debussy]

232.
ID: 38725  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet D (NYU A, Rutgers A, Michigan A, and Oxford A) | Number: 5
BONUS: These functions can be defined by a generalization of the generating function for Legendre (“luh-ZHOND-ruh”) polynomials. For 10 points each:
[10] The Chebyshev polynomials have this useful property, meaning that the integral inner product between two polynomials with indices n and m is proportional to a delta function of n and m. It is named in analogy to vectors at right angles to each other.
ANSWER: orthogonality [accept word forms like orthogonal polynomials] &lt;Other Science (Mixed)&gt;
[10] Chebyshev polynomials can be used to define one of these systems with steep roll-off at the cost of increased ripple. These systems have negative gain for the frequencies that they reject.
ANSWER: filters [accept bandpass filters; accept Chebyshev filters]
[10] Name these polynomials, often symbolized T-sub-n, that are solutions to an ultraspherical ODE (“O-D-E”). They oscillate between negative one and one, and they minimize the maximum error in a truncated series expansion.
ANSWER: Chebyshev polynomials [accept Chebyshev series or Chebyshev expansion]

233.
ID: 38726  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Philosophy | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet D (NYU A, Rutgers A, Michigan A, and Oxford A) | Number: 6
BONUS: Abdullah Öcalan (“OH-juh-lahn”) developed the Kurdistan Workers’ Party’s theory of “democratic confederalism” after studying the works of this philosopher in prison. For 10 points each:
[10] In another work, Bookchin analyzed how this political system, which generally seeks to abolish state institutions, would function in a “Post-Scarcity” world. This political system names a Robert Nozick book alongside “State” and “Utopia.”
ANSWER: anarchism [or anarchy; accept Post-Scarcity Anarchism or Anarchy, State, and Utopia] &lt;Social Science&gt;
[10] The Ecology of Freedom’s final chapter praises this French utopian socialist thinker as “a rationalist who detested the rationalization of life,” highlighting this man’s plan to achieve social harmony by sorting people into “phalanxes.”
ANSWER: Charles Fourier [or François Marie Charles Fourier; do not accept “Joseph Fourier”]
[10] Name this American thinker who pointed to the “dissolution of hierarchy” as the method for achieving a system of “social ecology” in his book The Ecology of Freedom.
ANSWER: Murray Bookchin

234.
ID: 38727  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet D (NYU A, Rutgers A, Michigan A, and Oxford A) | Number: 7
BONUS: This man ran out of his cabin shouting “Noble earthquake!” during the 1872 Lone Pine earthquake. For 10 points each:
[10] Muir strongly condemned the flooding of this California valley, comparing it to destroying churches and cathedrals. Nevertheless, it was approved in 1913 by the Raker Act.
ANSWER: Hetch Hetchy Valley &lt;American History&gt;
[10] Muir was a friend of this conservationist president who championed the “Square Deal” and ran as the Progressive Party candidate in 1912.
ANSWER: Theodore Roosevelt [or TR; prompt on Roosevelt]
[10] Name this naturalist and founder of the Sierra Club. He was instrumental in establishing Yosemite National Park.
ANSWER: John Muir (“myurr”)

235.
ID: 38728  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature European
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet D (NYU A, Rutgers A, Michigan A, and Oxford A) | Number: 8
BONUS: Teachings of this movement were collected in its namesake “Codification” by a man who used the pseudonym Allan Kardec (“ah-LAHN kar-DECK”). For 10 points each:
[10] Another inspiration for Allan Kardec was this German doctor’s idea of “animal magnetism.” He claimed to be able to cure people through his own touch.
ANSWER: Franz Mesmer [or Franz Friedrich Anton Mesmer] &lt;Religion&gt;
[10] Kardec wrote a handbook for these people who purport to help people communicate with spirits through séances (“SAY-on-sizz”).
ANSWER: mediums [prompt on spiritualists or spiritists]
[10] Name this movement whose beliefs are syncretized with Catholicism to form the religion of Santo Daime (“SAHN-too DYE-mee”). It was inspired in part by the visions of Emanuel Swedenborg.
ANSWER: Spiritism [prompt on spiritualism]

236.
ID: 38729  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet D (NYU A, Rutgers A, Michigan A, and Oxford A) | Number: 9
BONUS: The secondary form of this effect happens when the substituted atom is not directly involved in a bond that’s formed or broken. For 10 points each:
[10] The kinetic isotope effect of this reaction mechanism is very close to 1. The Finkelstein reaction follows this mechanism.
ANSWER: SN2 [or bimolecular nucleophilic substitution] &lt;Chemistry&gt;
[10] Replacing an atom of this element with deuterium produces a strong kinetic isotope effect, because this simple element’s most abundant isotope is roughly half as massive as deuterium.
ANSWER: hydrogen [or H]
[10] Name this effect in which exchanging an atom for one with a different mass number causes a change in reaction rate. It is often used to determine unknown reaction mechanisms.
ANSWER: kinetic isotope effect [or KIE; prompt on isotope effect]

237.
ID: 38730  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet D (NYU A, Rutgers A, Michigan A, and Oxford A) | Number: 10
BONUS: The most recent winner of this prize opens with Somebody McSomebody threatening to shoot the protagonist before calling her a cat. For 10 points each:
[10] Richard Hannay disguises himself as a milkman to escape his potential assassins in The Thirty-Nine Steps, a novel by this Scot who also served as Governor General of Canada.
ANSWER: John Buchan (“BUKH-in”), 1st Baron Tweedsmuir [prompt on 1st Baron Tweedsmuir] &lt;Other Literature&gt;
[10] “Milkman” is also the nickname of Macon Dead, the protagonist of this Toni Morrison novel.
ANSWER: Song of Solomon
[10] Name this literary prize whose first Northern Irish laureate, Anna Burns, won it in 2018 for her novel Milkman. In 2014, this prize’s eligibility was widened to include all English-language novels.
ANSWER: Man Booker Prize for Fiction

238.
ID: 38731  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Current Events | Subcategory: Current Events Other
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet D (NYU A, Rutgers A, Michigan A, and Oxford A) | Number: 11
BONUS: After resigning as mayor of this city in 2018, Patricia de Lille left the Democratic Alliance and formed a political party simply named “Good.” For 10 points each:
[10] Zuma often blamed calls for his resignation on this three-word phrase common in contemporary South African political discourse. The PR firm Bell Pottinger ran a campaign portraying the Gupta family as victims of a conspiracy involving this concept.
ANSWER: white monopoly capital [prompt on partial answers] &lt;Current Events&gt;
[10] This former president of South Africa, who was succeeded by Cyril Ramaphosa in 2018, was also accused of mishandling the Cape Town water crisis.
ANSWER: Jacob Zuma [or Jacob Gedleyihlekisa Zuma; prompt on JZ or Msholozi]
[10] Name this city. De Lille was criticized for her handling of the ongoing water crisis in this city, which in 2018 narrowly avoided completely shutting off municipal water supplies in a situation dubbed “Day Zero.”
ANSWER: Cape Town, South Africa [or City of Cape Town; or Stad Kaapstad; or IsiXeko saseKapa]

239.
ID: 38732  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet D (NYU A, Rutgers A, Michigan A, and Oxford A) | Number: 12
BONUS: Ranks of pine trees divide the square canvas in two in a painting of this city titled <em>White Night</em>. For 10 points each:
[10] An experience on the road between Oslo and Nordstrand in which the “sky became bloody red” and Munch “leaned against a railing” inspired him to paint this best-known work of his.
ANSWER: The Scream [or Skrik] &lt;Painting&gt;
[10] Evening on Karl Johan Street was included as part of the “Angst” section of this series of artworks by Edvard Munch (“moonk”), which was first displayed at the Berlin Secession in 1902.
ANSWER: The Frieze of Life
[10] Name this city depicted in a painting of Karl Johan Street by the same artist, in which some hat-wearing figures on the left advance towards the viewer.
ANSWER: Oslo [or Christiana]

240.
ID: 38733  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet D (NYU A, Rutgers A, Michigan A, and Oxford A) | Number: 13
BONUS: This man won the Battle of Plymouth against England while serving under Maarten Tromp. For 10 points each:
[10] The aforementioned Raid on the Medway, which is described in Samuel Pepys’s (“PEEPS’s”) diary, occurred in this decade.
ANSWER: 1660s &lt;European History&gt;
[10] Michiel de Ruyter was an admiral for this country, which won independence from Spain in the Eighty Years’ War.
ANSWER: Netherlands [or Kingdom of the Netherlands; accept Dutch Republic; accept Holland]
[10] Name this admiral who burned thirteen English ships in an attack near Chatham that took place shortly after Holmes’s Bonfire.
ANSWER: Michiel de Ruyter (“mih-KHEEL duh RAO-ter”) [or Michiel Adriaanszoon de Ruyter]

241.
ID: 38734  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet D (NYU A, Rutgers A, Michigan A, and Oxford A) | Number: 14
BONUS: This kind of animal appears in the title of a story that ambiguously ends with a woman saying to either her husband or another man, “You could have just driven away… forsook me. Forsooken me. Forsaken.” For 10 points each:
[10] The title character of a Thomas Bangs Thorpe story styles himself as “the big bear” of this US state. This home state of Charles Portis is where Maya Angelou grew up, as recounted in I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings.
ANSWER: Arkansas &lt;American Literature&gt;
[10] Isaac hunts Old Ben in this author’s story “The Bear,” which he set in Yoknapatawpha (“yock-nuh-puh-TAW-fuh”) County, like most of his novels, including The Sound and the Fury.
ANSWER: William Faulkner
[10] Name this type of animal that appears in the title of that Alice Munro story about Grant and his wife Fiona, who suffers from Alzheimer’s. In another story, Isaac hunts one of these animals called Old Ben.
ANSWER: bear [accept “The Bear” or “The Bear Came Over the Mountain”]

242.
ID: 38735  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet D (NYU A, Rutgers A, Michigan A, and Oxford A) | Number: 15
BONUS: An organism from this phylum was the first multicellular organism to have its entire genome sequenced. For 10 points each:
[10] Drosha and Dicer are downregulated in some types of this cancer. This cancer has an ER-positive form that can be treated using tamoxifen, and it may also have extra copies of HER2/neu.
ANSWER: breast cancer &lt;Biology&gt;
[10] C. elegans was used to discover RNAi, whose process includes this enzyme that initiates microRNA processing in the nucleus. It binds to Pasha to form the microprocessor complex.
ANSWER: Drosha
[10] Name this phylum that includes C. elegans, pinworms, and hookworms.
ANSWER: nematoda [accept nematodes]

243.
ID: 38736  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Philosophy | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet D (NYU A, Rutgers A, Michigan A, and Oxford A) | Number: 16
BONUS: Name some medieval philosophers who wrote about the <em>locutio angelica</em>, or the language that angels use to communicate, for 10 points each.
[10] This philosopher argued that Aquinas’s claim that angels already know everything about the universe would mean that they would have nothing to talk about with each other, choosing instead to frame angels’ individual and incomplete knowledge as a sign of their “haecceity” (“heck-SEE-uh-tee”).
ANSWER: Duns Scotus [or John Duns] &lt;Philosophy&gt;
[10] Alexander’s account of angelic speech was repurposed by this later thinker, who also argued that inferior angels can, in fact, speak to superior angels in a section of his Summa Theologica.
ANSWER: Saint Thomas Aquinas [or Tommaso d’Aquino]
[10] This thinker influentially argued that angels convey previously interior thoughts through a “spiritual nod.” This scholastic from Hales came to prominence after writing A Gloss on the Four Books of the Sentences of Peter Lombard.
ANSWER: Alexander of Hales [or Doctor Irrefragibilis; prompt on Halensis or Halesius]

244.
ID: 38737  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Audiovisual
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet D (NYU A, Rutgers A, Michigan A, and Oxford A) | Number: 17
BONUS: In Act 2 of a ballet, the title character gives two of these objects to her step-sisters while they all attend the Spring Ball. For 10 points each:
[10] In A Love for Three Oranges, Fata Morgana beats Tchelio three times in a row in this activity. In a Tchaikovsky opera, Herman sings “What is our life? A game!” just before losing at this activity, after which he commits suicide.
ANSWER: playing cards [accept more specific answers like playing poker] (The opera is The Queen of Spades.) &lt;Other Arts&gt;
[10] This Soviet composer wrote the ballet Cinderella and the opera The Love for Three Oranges.
ANSWER: Sergei Prokofiev [or Sergei Sergeyevich Prokofiev]
[10] Name these objects. In an opera titled for these objects, a jester uses a magic ribbon to distract a giantess, sung by a bass, who guards these objects.
ANSWER: oranges [or three oranges; prompt on less specific answers like fruit]

245.
ID: 38738  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature Other
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet D (NYU A, Rutgers A, Michigan A, and Oxford A) | Number: 18
BONUS: Answer the following about the French literary movement Oulipo (“oo-lee-poh”), for 10 points each.
[10] Jean Lescure (“less-KOOR”) invented an Oulipo technique in which every noun in a text is replaced with the nth noun following it in a dictionary, where n is this number.
ANSWER: seven &lt;European Literature&gt;
[10] A Void is by this French author who also wrote Life: A User’s Manual.
ANSWER: Georges Perec
[10] The Oulipo novel A Void was written without using this vowel, which is the most frequently used letter in both French and English.
ANSWER: e

246.
ID: 38739  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet D (NYU A, Rutgers A, Michigan A, and Oxford A) | Number: 19
BONUS: This system’s Hamiltonian includes quadratic kinetic and potential energy terms. For 10 points each:
[10] These states are eigenvectors of the lowering operator, a. They are often considered to be the most classical quantum states because the expectation values of position and momentum oscillate as they do for a classical oscillator.
ANSWER: coherent states &lt;Physics&gt;
[10] The quantum harmonic oscillator can be solved by rewriting the Hamiltonian in terms of these operators, which are typically symbolized a and a-dagger.
ANSWER: ladder operators [accept raising and lowering operators, or creation and annihilation operators (in either order)]
[10] Name this physical system that classically consists of an object experiencing a restoring spring force. The quantum version of this system has energy levels with even spacing of h-bar omega.
ANSWER: harmonic oscillator [accept HO or quantum harmonic oscillator or QHO or simple harmonic oscillator or SHO]

247.
ID: 38740  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet D (NYU A, Rutgers A, Michigan A, and Oxford A) | Number: 20
BONUS: Name some things about the travels of Afonso de Albuquerque, for 10 points each.
[10] In 1515, Albuquerque sent one of these animals to Manuel I of Portugal from Goa. It was pitted in a fight against an elephant and drowned en route to Rome where it was intended as a gift to Leo X.
ANSWER: rhinoceros &lt;World History&gt;
[10] Albuquerque was named duke of this Portuguese enclave in India after conquering it in 1510. It would remain Portuguese territory until 1961, when India retook it in Operation Vijay.
ANSWER: Goa
[10] Albuquerque often fought forces of this empire around the Red Sea and the Indian Ocean. This empire’s ruler Selim the Grim conquered Mamluk Egypt in 1517.
ANSWER: Ottoman Empire [or Exalted Ottoman State; or Devlet-i Aliye-i Osmaniye; or Osmanlı Devleti; or Osmanlı İmparatorluğu; accept Turkish Empire; prompt on Turkey]

248.
ID: 38741  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet D (NYU A, Rutgers A, Michigan A, and Oxford A) | Number: 21
BONUS: Answer the following about germ layers, for 10 points each.
[10] In most mammals, the inner cell mass gives rise to two layers; this layer differentiates into the three germ layers, while its partner gives rise to extra-embryonic tissue.
ANSWER: epiblast &lt;Biology&gt;
[10] Diploblastic animals like Cnidaria (“nye-DARE-ee-uh”) have these two germ layers, while triploblastic animals like humans have a third layer, the mesoderm, as well.
ANSWER: endoderm AND ectoderm
[10] Germ layers are the layers of cells that form during this stage of organismal development between the zygote and the fetus.
ANSWER: embryo [or embryonic development]

249.
ID: 38742  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature World
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet E (Penn State B, Berkeley A, and Harvard A) | Number: 1
BONUS: Henry Swanzy organized a BBC radio program titled for the “Voices” of this region that helped popularize authors like Edgar Mittelholzer and Edward Kamau Brathwaite. For 10 points each:
[10] The Caribbean author Jean Rhys (“jeen reece”) wrote the postcolonial novel Wide Sargasso Sea, which retells this Charlotte Brontë novel.
ANSWER: Jane Eyre &lt;World Literature&gt;
[10] Another author popularized by the Caribbean Voices program was this Trinidadian novelist of The Lonely Londoners, which pioneered the use of creolized English in narration.
ANSWER: Sam Selvon [or Samuel Selvon]
[10] Name this region where authors like Michelle Cliff and Claude McKay were born. Many consider Thomas MacDermot’s Becka’s Buckra Baby to be the beginning of modern writing in this region.
ANSWER: the Caribbean [or the West Indies; anti-prompt on Jamaica or Barbados or Guyana]

250.
ID: 38743  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet E (Penn State B, Berkeley A, and Harvard A) | Number: 2
BONUS: This country’s leader was a personal friend of Ian Smith and gave the white Rhodesian government aid during Rhodesia’s Bush War. For 10 points each:
[10] Before entering politics, Salazar was a distinguished member of this profession. Indonesian members of this profession who advised Suharto’s “New Order” regime were known as the “Berkeley Mafia.”
ANSWER: economists [or economics] &lt;European History&gt;
[10] This Portuguese leader responded to the loss of his country’s former territories of Goa, Daman, and Diu by dissolving diplomatic ties with India. This dictator presided over the Estado Novo (“ish-TAH-doo NOH-voo”) starting in 1933.
ANSWER: António de Oliveira Salazar (“suh-luh-ZARR”)
[10] Name this country that fought to keep its overseas colonies in a war that lasted from 1961 to 1975. It also owned colonies like Daman (“duh-MON”) and Diu (“DEE-oo”).
ANSWER: Portugal [or Portuguese Republic; or República Portuguesa]

251.
ID: 38744  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet E (Penn State B, Berkeley A, and Harvard A) | Number: 3
BONUS: Beethoven originally wrote the <em>Grosse Fuge</em> (“GROSS-uh FOO-guh”) as the finale of his Opus 130, a piece for this ensemble, until he was convinced by his publisher to replace it. For 10 points each:
[10] Description acceptable. Immediately before the first fugue of the Grosse Fuge, the first violin’s presentation of the subject is notated in this way, which has raised questions as to how it and similar passages should be played.
ANSWER: two tied eighth notes of the same pitch, instead of just quarter notes [accept slurred in place of “tied”] &lt;Music&gt;
[10] Beethoven extensively used this musical ornament in the Grosse Fuge. It consists of a continuous oscillation between two neighboring notes and is often designated by two letters and a wavy horizontal line.
ANSWER: trill [or shake]
[10] Name this kind of ensemble. Beethoven wrote five “late” works for this instrumentation, which consists of two violins, a viola, and a cello.
ANSWER: string quartet [prompt on quartet or SQ]

252.
ID: 38745  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Mythology | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet E (Penn State B, Berkeley A, and Harvard A) | Number: 4
BONUS: A man particularly adept at this skill had plenty of time to practice while sitting out most of the Trojan War recovering from a nasty wound on Lemnos. For 10 points each:
[10] Heracles himself got to flex his archery skills when he defeated this king of Oechalia in an archery contest. As a prize, he then took this man’s daughter Iole (“EYE-uh-lee”) as a bride.
ANSWER: Eurytus &lt;Mythology&gt;
[10] The arrows that Philoctetes received from Heracles were particularly potent because they had this quality, acquired during the fight with the Hydra.
ANSWER: they were poisoned with the Hydra’s blood
[10] Name this skill that Philoctetes was a master of.
ANSWER: archery [accept anything related to shooting a bow and arrow]

253.
ID: 38746  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Other
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet E (Penn State B, Berkeley A, and Harvard A) | Number: 5
BONUS: Based on observations of 26 different galaxies, Gebhardt et al. found that the exponential parameter in this relation is equal to approximately 3.75. For 10 points each:
[10] The Faber–Jackson relation predicts a power law dependence for luminosity on velocity dispersion for these roughly spherical galaxies, which are contrasted with spiral galaxies.
ANSWER: elliptical galaxies &lt;Other Science (Astronomy)&gt;
[10] Gebhardt et al. normalized the velocity dispersion using an effective radius, defined as the radius containing half the galaxy’s total value of this quantity. Before the M–sigma relation, this variable was related to central black hole mass, and for some galaxies, the Faber–Jackson relation links this variable to sigma.
ANSWER: luminosity [or brightness; or light; accept half-light radius; accept absolute magnitude]
[10] Name this relation between the velocity dispersion of a galactic bulge to the mass of its central supermassive black hole.
ANSWER: M–sigma relation

254.
ID: 38747  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet E (Penn State B, Berkeley A, and Harvard A) | Number: 6
BONUS: On September 7, 1822, this ruler’s wife Maria Leopoldina urged him to defy the demands of the <em>Cortes</em>. For 10 points each:
[10] Two years after independence, Pedro I suppressed an uprising of wealthy landowners in Northeastern Brazil, who proclaimed a confederation named after this geographical feature.
ANSWER: the Equator [or equador] &lt;World History&gt;
[10] Pedro was the first emperor of this South American country, which won its independence from Portugal.
ANSWER: Brazil [or Federative Republic of Brazil; or República Federativa do Brasil]
[10] Name this ruler who shouted “Independence or death!” in the Cry of Ipiranga.
ANSWER: Pedro I [prompt on Pedro]

255.
ID: 38748  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet E (Penn State B, Berkeley A, and Harvard A) | Number: 7
BONUS: In this novel, the author Mark Asprey prints translations of his own books into multiple languages to make them look more popular than they actually are. For 10 points each:
[10] Betrayal was written by this British playwright of “comedies of menace” like The Dumb Waiter and The Birthday Party.
ANSWER: Harold Pinter &lt;British Literature&gt;
[10] The author of London Fields, Martin Amis, used this gimmick in his novel about the Auschwitz doctor Odilo Unverdorben. The play Betrayal traces Emma and Jerry’s affair using this gimmick.
ANSWER: reverse chronology [or telling the story backwards in time]
[10] Name this novel that opens with Samson Young narrating the story of a murder that hasn’t happened yet. The victim of that murder is named Nicola Six.
ANSWER: London Fields

256.
ID: 38749  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet E (Penn State B, Berkeley A, and Harvard A) | Number: 8
BONUS: A series of papers by Roger Myerson formulated this principle for Bayesian games, assuming the presence of a free and trustworthy mediator. For 10 points each:
[10] The revelation principle allows one to assume that players are truthful when calculating the Bayesian form of these solutions to non-cooperative games.
ANSWER: Bayesian Nash equilibrium [or Nash equilibria; prompt on equilibrium or equilibria] &lt;Social Science&gt;
[10] William Vickrey’s design for one of these types of processes, in which the highest bidder wins but pays the price of the second-highest bid, is an example of an incentive-compatible direct-revelation mechanism.
ANSWER: auctions [accept Vickrey auction]
[10] Name this principle in mechanism design theory which states that any mechanism can be transformed into an equivalent incentive-compatible mechanism in which agents make direct claims about their preferences.
ANSWER: revelation principle

257.
ID: 38750  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet E (Penn State B, Berkeley A, and Harvard A) | Number: 9
BONUS: This scientist wrote about the efficiency of steam engines in <em>Reflections on the Motive Power of Fire</em>. For 10 points each:
[10] The Carnot cycle corresponds to a rectangle on this type of diagram, with vertical lines from its isentropic processes. The area under the process curve on these diagrams is related to the heat transferred to the system.
ANSWER: T–S diagram [or temperature vs. specific entropy diagram; accept answers indicating temperature being plotted (on the y-axis) against entropy (on the x-axis)] &lt;Physics&gt;
[10] Carnot’s theorem is a consequence of the second law of thermodynamics, which in this statement says that heat cannot flow from a cold object to a hotter one. The scientist who posited this statement of the second law also developed an inequality about integrated heat in cyclic processes.
ANSWER: Clausius’s statement of the second law of thermodynamics
[10] Name this Frenchman who described a maximally efficient thermodynamic heat engine, where efficiency depends only on the temperatures of the hot and cold reservoirs.
ANSWER: Sadi Carnot [or Nicolas Léonard Sadi Carnot]

258.
ID: 38751  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet E (Penn State B, Berkeley A, and Harvard A) | Number: 10
BONUS: The Chinese <em>bāyīn</em> (“bah-yeen”) system categorizes these objects as gold, stone, silk, bamboo, gourd, earth, hide, or wood, and the Natya Shastra classifies them as stretched, hollow, solid, or covered. For 10 points each:
[10] In this idiophone, hammers strike a set of steel bars atop wooden resonators. Bartók wrote Music for Strings, Percussion, and this small keyboard instrument, which sounds similar to a glockenspiel.
ANSWER: celesta (“suh-LESS-tuh”) [or celeste] &lt;Other Arts&gt;
[10] The Hornbostel–Sachs system includes chordophones, aerophones, and these instruments that sound by vibrating themselves instead of relying on strings or membranes. They include xylophones, maracas, and gongs.
ANSWER: idiophones (“ID-ee-oh-phones”)
[10] Name these things classified by the Hornbostel–Sachs system and studied by organologists. They are more commonly categorized as “strings,” “woodwinds,” “brass,” and “percussion.”
ANSWER: musical instruments

259.
ID: 38752  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet E (Penn State B, Berkeley A, and Harvard A) | Number: 11
BONUS: In his book <em>The Reformation of the Image</em>, Joseph Koerner argues that this artwork’s depiction of the Last Supper, which shows Jesus dining with a group of Germans, “negates sacred geography, revealing church as activity, not place.” For 10 points each:
[10] Cranach’s (“CRAH-nuck’s”) religious paintings were heavily influenced by the theology of this good friend of his. Cranach provided a number of woodcut illustrations for this man’s German translation of the Bible.
ANSWER: Martin Luther &lt;Painting&gt;
[10] The Wittenberg Altarpiece was painted by this court painter to the Elders of Saxony, who depicted Frederick the Wise engaging in a stag hunt in another work.
ANSWER: Lucas Cranach the Elder [prompt on Cranach]
[10] Name this altarpiece, the bottom panel of which depicts the crucifixion occurring between a certain preacher and his audience.
ANSWER: Wittenberg Altarpiece

260.
ID: 38753  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet E (Penn State B, Berkeley A, and Harvard A) | Number: 12
BONUS: The speaker of this poem sings Baptist hymns and “A Mighty Fortress Is Our God” to a seal that she sees every morning. For 10 points each:
[10] In a Bishop poem, this character quotes Wordsworth’s “I Wandered Lonely as a Cloud” but forgets exactly how it goes. This Daniel Defoe character is stranded on a desert island.
ANSWER: Robinson Crusoe [accept either underlined portion; accept “Crusoe in England”] &lt;American Literature&gt;
[10] Bishop’s poem “The Fish” repeats this word three times to describe oil spreading around the engine of a boat. The speaker of William Wordsworth’s “My Heart Leaps Up” sees one of these things.
ANSWER: rainbows
[10] Name this Elizabeth Bishop poem that opens with an old man sitting and netting on a cold evening.
ANSWER: “At the Fishhouses”

261.
ID: 38754  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet E (Penn State B, Berkeley A, and Harvard A) | Number: 13
BONUS: Learned (“LEARN-id”) Hand used this term in <em>Commissioner v. Ickelheimer</em> to refer to rights that existed that were not explicitly written out. For 10 points each:
[10] Suspects are read that they have the right to remain silent and to obtain an attorney during interrogations while in police custody following this 1966 Supreme Court case.
ANSWER: Miranda v. Arizona &lt;American History&gt;
[10] This constitutional amendment affirms the existence of rights that are not explicitly enumerated in the Constitution. It states that “the enumeration in the Constitution, of certain rights, shall not be construed to deny or disparage others retained by the people.”
ANSWER: Ninth Amendment
[10] Name this term for rights that are implicitly derived from enumerated rights in the Constitution. Most notably, William Douglas used this term to overturn a ban on contraception in his majority opinion in Griswold v. Connecticut.
ANSWER: penumbras

262.
ID: 38755  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Philosophy | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet E (Penn State B, Berkeley A, and Harvard A) | Number: 14
BONUS: This philosopher’s best-known work describes how the title construct demarcates “civil” and “wild” spaces. For 10 points each:
[10] To show how contracts are used to explain non-ideal societies, Mills analyzes a different Rousseau discourse titled for the “origin and basis of” this phenomenon “among men.”
ANSWER: inequality [or l’inegalité] &lt;Philosophy&gt;
[10] The title of Mills’s The Racial Contract is a play on this French philosopher’s book The Social Contract.
ANSWER: Jean-Jacques Rousseau
[10] Name this Jamaican-American thinker who analyzed how white supremacy is integrated into liberal political systems in his book The Racial Contract.
ANSWER: Charles Wade Mills [do not accept “C. Wright Mills”]

263.
ID: 38756  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet E (Penn State B, Berkeley A, and Harvard A) | Number: 15
BONUS: Flame ionization detectors are commonly used in the “gas” version of this technique. For 10 points each:
[10] This problem in chromatography asks how to adequately separate analytes with widely varying retention times. Temperature programming and gradient programming can be used to alleviate this problem.
ANSWER: general elution problem &lt;Chemistry&gt;
[10] In chromatography, this is the time it takes a particular analyte in the mixture to pass through the system. The Kovats index normalizes these values.
ANSWER: retention time [do not accept or prompt on “retention factor” or “Rf” or “R-sub-f”]
[10] Name this lab technique used to separate a mixture dissolved in a mobile phase by passing it through a stationary phase.
ANSWER: chromatography [accept gas chromatography]

264.
ID: 38757  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Religion | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet E (Penn State B, Berkeley A, and Harvard A) | Number: 16
BONUS: During a visit to this place, it is described as having a “lote-tree of extremity” that marks its entrance. For 10 points each:
[10] The Quran describes the first half of Muhammad’s night journey as being a trip to this nebulous place, which is identified by most Muslims as a still-extant building in Jerusalem.
ANSWER: the furthest mosque [or the furthest masjid] &lt;Religion&gt;
[10] While in Jannah, this figure has Muhammad ask Allah to reduce the number of daily prayers to five. This brother of Aaron is the most-mentioned figure in the Quran.
ANSWER: Moses [or Mûsâ ibn ‘Imran]
[10] Name this destination of the mi’raj.
ANSWER: heaven [or Jannah]

265.
ID: 38758  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet E (Penn State B, Berkeley A, and Harvard A) | Number: 17
BONUS: This politician names the Ottawa headquarters of the Canadian Department of Global Affairs. For 10 points each:
[10] This foreign politician angered Pearson by declaring “Long live Free Quebec” in Montreal during Expo 67.
ANSWER: Charles de Gaulle &lt;World History&gt;
[10] Pearson won a Nobel Peace Prize for his role in mediating the resolution of this event. Anthony Eden resigned in the aftermath of this event, in which Gamal Abdel Nasser nationalized a certain Egyptian waterway.
ANSWER: Suez Crisis
[10] Name this former Prime Minister of Canada. After this politician suggested that American forces cease bombing North Vietnam in a Philadelphia speech, Lyndon B. Johnson grabbed him by his lapels and shouted “Don’t you come into my living room and piss on my rug.”
ANSWER: Lester Bowles Pearson

266.
ID: 38759  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet E (Penn State B, Berkeley A, and Harvard A) | Number: 18
BONUS: An exhibition of this woman’s work partly titled “The Art of the In-Between” was put on at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in 2017. For 10 points each:
[10] Kawakubo became the first living artist to have an exhibition in the Met’s Costume Institute since this French couturier (“koo-turr-ee-AY”), who apprenticed under Christian Dior and designed a women’s dinner suit called Le Smoking.
ANSWER: Yves Saint Laurent [or Yves Henri Donat Mathieu-Saint-Laurent; prompt on YSL] &lt;Other Academic&gt;
[10] Kawakubo and her husband Adrian Joffe are the cofounders of Dover Street Market, a fashion retailer whose original location is in this English city. Its Savile (“SAV-ill”) Row is the home of many high-end bespoke tailors.
ANSWER: London
[10] Name this Japanese fashion designer who established the Tokyo- and Paris-based fashion label Comme des Garçons (“kum day gar-SAWN”).
ANSWER: Rei Kawakubo

267.
ID: 38760  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature European
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet E (Penn State B, Berkeley A, and Harvard A) | Number: 19
BONUS: This man wrote the novels <em>Arc de Triomphe</em> and <em>Shadows in Paradise</em> while in exile in the US. For 10 points each:
[10] While in exile in Brazil, Stefan Zweig wrote a novella in which Dr. B splits into two personas while obsessively studying this activity in solitary confinement.
ANSWER: chess [accept Chess Story; prompt on the royal game] &lt;European Literature&gt;
[10] This other German novel was also written in exile. In it, the composer Adrian Leverkühn intentionally contracts syphilis and subsequently enjoys 24 years of musical genius before descending into madness.
ANSWER: Doktor Faustus [do not accept or prompt on “Faust”]
[10] Name this German author whose anti-war novel All Quiet on the Western Front was banned by the Nazis in 1933.
ANSWER: Erich Maria Remarque [or Erich Paul Remark]

268.
ID: 38761  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet E (Penn State B, Berkeley A, and Harvard A) | Number: 20
BONUS: Several DH10B strains from Thermo Fisher can be used for this process, during which the time constant is used as a measure of efficiency. For 10 points each:
[10] Electroporation often uses pUC19 (“P-U-C-nineteen”) as a control, which has a resistance gene for this antibiotic. This beta-lactam antibiotic is combined with sulbactam to give Unasyn (“YOO-nuh-sin”), and it is used to treat Listeria meningitis.
ANSWER: ampicillin &lt;Biology&gt;
[10] Electroporation is often used to get bacteria to take up these small circular segments of DNA discovered by Joshua Lederberg. Their “R” type carries genes for antibiotic resistance.
ANSWER: plasmids
[10] Name this process in which current is used to induce bacteria to take up foreign DNA.
ANSWER: electroporation

269.
ID: 38762  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet E (Penn State B, Berkeley A, and Harvard A) | Number: 21
BONUS: While on his deathbed, Goethe supposedly spoke this two-word phrase, possibly referencing the philosophy outlined in his <em>Theory of Colors</em>. For 10 points each:
[10] With Helen H. Bacon, Anthony Hecht translated this Aeschylus play that consists largely of discussions between Eteocles and his subjects.
ANSWER: Seven Against Thebes [or Hepta epi Thebas] &lt;Other Literature&gt;
[10] “More Light! More Light!” is by Anthony Hecht, who co-created a poetic form named for a “double” one of these poetic feet. This foot consists of a long syllable followed by two short syllables, as in the word “poetry.”
ANSWER: dactyls [accept double dactyl]
[10] Name this two-word phrase that also repetitively titles a poem dedicated to “Heinrich Blucher and Hannah Arendt” that describes horrific executions in the Tower of London and “outside a German wood.”
ANSWER: more light [or “More Light! More Light!”]

270.
ID: 38763  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Computer Science
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet F (Yale A, Gettysburg A, and Iowa) | Number: 1
BONUS: In cryptography, the output of these functions is known as the message digest. For 10 points each:
[10] SHA-1 is also vulnerable to an attack based on “extending” this property. Most hash functions modify this property through a process known as padding to ensure that this property is uniform.
ANSWER: input length [accept equivalents, such as size of the input, or length of the plaintext; prompt on length or length extension attack; prompt on input; do not accept or prompt on answers involving “output” or “encrypted text” or “ciphertext”] &lt;Other Science (Computer Science)&gt;
[10] In 2017, CWI Amsterdam and Google published an attack on the hash function based SHA-1 (“shah-one”) algorithm that works by producing these events. That attack was five orders of magnitude faster than a simple “birthday” attack where the probability of creating one of these events is similar to the birthday problem.
ANSWER: collisions [or hash collisions; accept collisional attack]
[10] Name these functions that map arbitrary inputs to numbers, and allow for constant-time lookup in their namesake “tables.”
ANSWER: hash functions [or cryptographic hash functions]

271.
ID: 38764  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet F (Yale A, Gettysburg A, and Iowa) | Number: 2
BONUS: This political leader played guitar for the band Tout-à-Coup (“too-tah-COO”) Jazz. For 10 points each:
[10] Sankara is often called Africa’s version of this man. This Marxist revolutionary, born Ernesto Lynch, helped Fidel Castro overthrow the Batista government and is the subject of the iconic black-and-white photograph Guerrillero Heroico (“gair-ee-YAIR-oh air-OH-ee-koh”).
ANSWER: Che Guevara [accept either underlined portion] &lt;World History&gt;
[10] Sankara was the fifth president of this African country. It was called Upper Volta when it was a French colony.
ANSWER: Burkina Faso
[10] Name this Marxist revolutionary who overthrew Jean-Baptiste Ouédraogo (“way-drah-oh-goh”) in 1983 and gave his country a new name that means “Land of Upright Man.”
ANSWER: Thomas Sankara

272.
ID: 38765  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature European
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet F (Yale A, Gettysburg A, and Iowa) | Number: 3
BONUS: In an early novel by this author, the protagonist repeatedly goes to a café to imagine the backstory of a murder she saw during her child’s piano lesson. For 10 points each:
[10] This other author went one further than Duras and Camus by narrating a 1953 novel from the perspective of an “unnamable” protagonist. His other French-language novels include Malone Dies.
ANSWER: Samuel Beckett [or Samuel Barclay Beckett] &lt;European Literature&gt;
[10] The Child, Husband, and Boss from Duras’s Moderato Cantabile are all unnamed, much like the Arab who Meursault (“mur-SOH”) kills in this author’s The Stranger.
ANSWER: Albert Camus (“all-BAIR ka-MOO”)
[10] Name this author of 1958’s Moderato Cantabile (“kahn-TAH-bee-lay”).
ANSWER: Marguerite Duras (“dew-ROSS”) [or Marguerite Donnadieu]

273.
ID: 38766  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet F (Yale A, Gettysburg A, and Iowa) | Number: 4
BONUS: The second piece from this set includes a melody based on the 16th-century song “La Mantovana,” which was later adapted into the Israeli national anthem <em>Hatikvah</em>. For 10 points each:
[10] Another of Smetana’s cycles, the so-called “Swedish” symphonic poems, includes this piece based on a play by Danish author Adam Oehlenschläger (“AY-dum UH-len-SHLAY-ur”). It tells the story of a 10th-century pagan king of Norway.
ANSWER: Hakon Jarl &lt;Music&gt;
[10] Má vlast was inspired by landmarks and legends from this country, Smetana’s homeland. Another musician from this country is the composer of the Glagolitic Mass, Leoš Janáček (“LEH-ohsh yah-NAH-check”).
ANSWER: Czech Republic [accept Czechoslovakia, Czechia, Česká republika, or Česko]
[10] Name this set of six symphonic poems that includes depictions of the city of Tábor and the river Vltava (“vull-TAH-vah”). They are among the best-known compositions of Bedřich Smetana (“BED-rikh SMEH-tah-nah”).
ANSWER: Má vlast [or My Homeland; or My Fatherland]

274.
ID: 38767  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet F (Yale A, Gettysburg A, and Iowa) | Number: 5
BONUS: Alexander Bickel described this practice as a “deviant institution in the American democracy” in a book about the problem of the “counter-majoritarian difficulty.” For 10 points each:
[10] Waldron notes that judicial review’s failure to establish decision procedures that “settle, not reignite” the controversies that made them necessary echoes a problem described in this English thinker’s treatise Leviathan.
ANSWER: Thomas Hobbes &lt;Philosophy&gt;
[10] Waldron argues that judicial review is unable to settle disagreements about these things. In a book titled for “taking [these things] seriously,” Ronald Dworkin argued that “individual” examples of them serve as “trumps.”
ANSWER: rights [accept Taking Rights Seriously and a right to/of equal concern and respect]
[10] Name this two-word practice. Jeremy Waldron, a prominent critic of it, argued that the “core of the case against” it is that it disenfranchises citizens and distracts them through “side-issues about precedent, texts, and interpretation.”
ANSWER: judicial review [accept “The Core of the Case Against Judicial Review”]

275.
ID: 38768  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature Other
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet F (Yale A, Gettysburg A, and Iowa) | Number: 6
BONUS: An enormous work by this man incorporates stories from the <em>Eddas</em> as well as genealogies of the Anglo-Saxons. For 10 points each:
[10] Jacob Grimm coined the popular term for this event, which is prominent in tales across Europe. Germans often identify its leader as either Wotan or Dietrich von Bern.
ANSWER: the wild hunt [or wilde Jagd; prompt on hunt or Jagd] &lt;Mythology&gt;
[10] Jacob Grimm is better known for compiling a collection of these works with his brother Wilhelm. That compilation includes such stories as “The Robber Bridegroom” and “Cinderella.”
ANSWER: fairy tales [prompt on any answer indicating tales for children]
[10] Name this author of Teutonic Mythology, the first comprehensive analysis of the myths of the Germanic peoples.
ANSWER: Jacob Grimm [or Jacob Ludwig Karl Grimm; prompt on Grimm]

276.
ID: 38769  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History British
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet F (Yale A, Gettysburg A, and Iowa) | Number: 7
BONUS: Roger Dymok published a point-by-point refutation of this document on behalf of Richard II. For 10 points each:
[10] Lollard leader John Oldcastle led a revolt against this ruler and was burned at the stake in 1417. This king led English forces to victory at the Battle of Agincourt.
ANSWER: Henry V [prompt on Henry] &lt;British History&gt;
[10] The Twelve Conclusions were written by members of this religious movement, who followed the teachings of John Wycliffe. Their name comes from a derogatory term meaning “mumblers.”
ANSWER: Lollards
[10] Name this manifesto that was nailed to the doors of Westminster Abbey and St. Paul’s Cathedral in 1395. It criticized the church’s temporal power and its practice of clerical celibacy.
ANSWER: Twelve Conclusions

277.
ID: 38770  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet F (Yale A, Gettysburg A, and Iowa) | Number: 8
BONUS: The British travel writer George Borrow often wrote about these people, including in his novel <em>Lavengro</em>. For 10 points each:
[10] The Romani are referred to as “Bohemians” in this author’s novel Quentin Durward, and they also make an appearance in his Guy Mannering.
ANSWER: Sir Walter Scott &lt;British Literature&gt;
[10] The narrator of this Henry Fielding novel digressively praises the institution of monarchy at the end of a chapter in which the title foundling and his traveling companion Partridge encounter a Roma wedding.
ANSWER: The History of Tom Jones, a Foundling
[10] Name these people. In an episode from The Mill on the Floss, Maggie runs away after pushing Lucy Deane in the mud, and is taken home by one of these people.
ANSWER: Romani people [accept gypsies]

278.
ID: 38771  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet F (Yale A, Gettysburg A, and Iowa) | Number: 9
BONUS: MRI tractography and brainbow labeling are two methods used to create these constructs, whose name was popularized by a TED talk given by Sebastian Seung. For 10 points each:
[10] Another pathological finding in Alzheimer’s disease is neurofibrillary tangles, which contain a hyperphosphorylated form of this microtubule-associated protein.
ANSWER: tau &lt;Biology&gt;
[10] Bendlin’s lab studies the connectome of people with this form of dementia, which is partly caused by the buildup of beta-amyloid plaques in neurons.
ANSWER: Alzheimer’s disease [or AD or Alzheimer’s dementia]
[10] Name this construct, a comprehensive map of all neurons and their connections in the brain.
ANSWER: connectome

279.
ID: 38772  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet F (Yale A, Gettysburg A, and Iowa) | Number: 10
BONUS: This concept’s theorizer presented eight successful examples of its execution in her book <em>The Dreamkeepers</em>. For 10 points each:
[10] Culturally relevant teaching is informed by the constructivist theories of knowledge proposed by this Swiss developmental psychologist, who argued that children use “assimilation” and “accommodation” to develop interpretive “schemas.”
ANSWER: Jean Piaget &lt;Social Science&gt;
[10] Ladson-Billings’s culturally relevant teaching draws on this thinker’s notion of “teaching as mining,” which he advocated as a replacement for what he termed the “banking model” of education in his Pedagogy of the Oppressed.
ANSWER: Paulo Freire (“FRAY-reh”)
[10] Name this three-word concept developed by Gloria Ladson-Billings to describe pedagogical practices that enable students to relate academic material to their personal backgrounds.
ANSWER: culturally relevant teaching [accept culturally relevant pedagogy; do not accept “critical pedagogy”]

280.
ID: 38773  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet F (Yale A, Gettysburg A, and Iowa) | Number: 11
BONUS: Name some things about Revolutionary War-era people with a common last name, for 10 points each.
[10] DeWitt Clinton, a nephew of the Founding Father George Clinton, served as Governor of New York during the completion of this infrastructure project. This waterway connects its namesake Great Lake to the Hudson River.
ANSWER: Erie Canal &lt;American History&gt;
[10] James Clinton helped lead this 1779 punitive expedition into Iroquois territory in upstate New York. This scorched-earth campaign devastated the power of the Iroquois Confederacy.
ANSWER: Sullivan Expedition
[10] This British general served as supreme commander of British forces in America from 1778 to 1781, replacing William Howe. He led the army that forced Benjamin Lincoln to surrender Charleston.
ANSWER: Sir Henry Clinton

281.
ID: 38774  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet F (Yale A, Gettysburg A, and Iowa) | Number: 12
BONUS: This theory contrasts species with a high charge-to-radius ratio and larger, more polarizable species with a low charge-to-radius ratio. For 10 points each:
[10] This “rule” based on HSAB theory states that for nucleophiles that attack in more than one place, SN1 reactions will happen at more electronegative atoms and SN2 reactions will happen at less electronegative atoms.
ANSWER: Kornblum’s rule &lt;Chemistry&gt;
[10] Hard acids primarily interact with bases through this form of bonding, in contrast with soft acids where the interaction has a significant covalent component. This form of bonding produces crystals primarily held together by electrostatic forces.
ANSWER: ionic bonding [accept word forms like ionic bonds]
[10] Name this theory of acids and bases that predicts that “like binds to like,” and breaks acids and bases into two classes based on factors like the energy of the LUMO (“LOO-mo”) or HOMO (“HO-mo”).
ANSWER: hard-soft acid-base theory [or HSAB theory; prompt on answers indicating Pearson’s acid base theory/concept]

282.
ID: 38775  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Religion | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet F (Yale A, Gettysburg A, and Iowa) | Number: 13
BONUS: Either 10 or 13 of these writings make up their <em>mukhya</em>, or principal subgroup. For 10 points each:
[10] The Mandukya Upanishad is found in this Veda. This was the last Veda to be accepted as such, and differs from the Rig, Sama, and Yajur Vedas by including formulas for daily religious practice.
ANSWER: Atharvaveda &lt;Religion&gt;
[10] In the Muktika Upanishad, Rama tells Hanuman (“HUH-noo-mon”) that reading this Upanishad alone is sufficient to achieve deliverance from suffering. This shortest Upanishad contains the line “the Atman is Brahman.”
ANSWER: Mandukya Upanishad
[10] Name these texts that consist of small sections of the Vedas (“VAY-duhs”). These texts discuss the relationship between the Atman and Brahman and contain the Four Great Sayings.
ANSWER: Upanishads

283.
ID: 38776  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet F (Yale A, Gettysburg A, and Iowa) | Number: 14
BONUS: Louis Wolheim received critical acclaim for originating the role of this character, whose real name is Bob Smith. For 10 points each:
[10] The Hairy Ape is by this author, who wrote about the Tyrone family in Long Day’s Journey Into Night.
ANSWER: Eugene O’Neill [or Eugene Gladstone O’Neill] &lt;American Literature&gt;
[10] Yank is the protagonist of this play, whose other characters include Mildred Douglas. Yank is killed by a gorilla at the end of this play.
ANSWER: The Hairy Ape
[10] Name this character whom several men tease with the chant “Drink, don’t think!” He works as the stoker of an ocean liner.
ANSWER: Yank [prompt on, but DO NOT REVEAL, The Hairy Ape]

284.
ID: 38777  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet F (Yale A, Gettysburg A, and Iowa) | Number: 15
BONUS: Xú Bēihóng (“shew bay-hung”) integrated Western-influenced realism in his paintings of birds and of these other subjects. For 10 points each:
[10] Ink wash painting was introduced to Japan by one of these people named Josetsu. A number of these people produced versions of the “ten ox-herding pictures” to illustrate how their tradition could lead to enlightenment.
ANSWER: Zen Buddhists [or Chán; prompt on Buddhists; prompt on monks or priests by asking “of what sect?”] &lt;Painting&gt;
[10] Xu Beihong’s most famous horse paintings were done with this type of painting, which was traditionally cultivated by Chinese literati. The namesake pigmented liquid of this kind of painting is also used in Chinese calligraphy.
ANSWER: ink wash painting [or shuǐmòhuà; or sumi-e; or suibokuga]
[10] Name this primary artistic subject of Zhào Mèngfǔ (“jao mung-foo”). In an early handscroll, Giuseppe Castiglione (“kah-steel-YO-nay”) painted One Hundred [of them] in a Landscape.
ANSWER: horses

285.
ID: 38778  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet F (Yale A, Gettysburg A, and Iowa) | Number: 16
BONUS: Answer the following about sea shanties, for 10 points each.
[10] The crew of a whaling ship operating in the Kamchatka Sea expresses its hope to return to port in a shanty titled “Rolling Down to Old [this island],” home to the former capital city of Lahaina. The Olowalu Massacre took place on this island after its natives stole a small boat from American trader Simon Metcalf.
ANSWER: Maui &lt;Other Academic&gt;
[10] The encouragement “heave away, you rolling king” appears in the chorus of a shanty that says “we’re bound for” this state that contains the Bunda sea cliffs. Its capital is Adelaide.
ANSWER: South Australia
[10] A shanty titled “Leave Her,” this name, “Leave Her” was often sung to air grievances near the end of a voyage. An American Civil War song states that “we’ll all feel gay when” a man of this name “comes marching home.”
ANSWER: Johnny

286.
ID: 38779  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet F (Yale A, Gettysburg A, and Iowa) | Number: 17
BONUS: This man and Lance Barnard formed a mini-ministry known as the “Duumvirate,” and his administration created the world’s first no-fault divorce procedures. For 10 points each:
[10] Elizabeth II had a much better relationship with this longest-serving Australian Prime Minister, who served from 1939 to 1941 and from 1949 to 1966. This giver of the “Forgotten People” speech created the ANZUS alliance with New Zealand and the United States and committed Australian troops to the Vietnam War.
ANSWER: Sir Robert Menzies (“mingus”) &lt;World History&gt;
[10] Kerr dismissed Whitlam as Prime Minister of Australia under the authority of this queen, who technically remains the monarch of Australia today.
ANSWER: Elizabeth II [prompt on Elizabeth]
[10] Name this leader who was removed from power by Governor-General John Kerr in an incident known as “the Dismissal.”
ANSWER: Gough Whitlam [or Edward Gough Whitlam]

287.
ID: 38780  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Other
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet F (Yale A, Gettysburg A, and Iowa) | Number: 18
BONUS: The Royal Institute of British Architects awards a yearly prize named for this man, who designed the “industrial”-themed Engineering Building at the University of Leicester (“lester”). For 10 points each:
[10] In the ’80s, Stirling created pioneering designs for this American university’s brick Sackler Building. H. H. Richardson’s masterpieces include this university’s Sever (“SEE-vur”) Hall, which is located in its namesake “Yard.”
ANSWER: Harvard University &lt;Other Arts&gt;
[10] Stirling’s earliest works, like the Langham House Close, exemplify this Le Corbusier-influenced modernist architectural style, which is characterized by the use of massive forms and raw concrete.
ANSWER: Brutalism [accept word forms like Brutalist]
[10] Name this British architect who used an undulating green frame for the façade of Stuttgart’s Neue Staatsgalerie (“NOY-uh SHTAHTS-gah-leh-ree”), an example of his later-career postmodernism.
ANSWER: James Stirling [or James Frazer Stirling]

288.
ID: 38781  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet F (Yale A, Gettysburg A, and Iowa) | Number: 19
BONUS: This process produces an Airy disk pattern when light impinges on a circular aperture. For 10 points each:
[10] Simeon Poisson (“pwah-SAWN”) entered a competing corpuscular theory of light. To strengthen his case, he used the wave theory to derive this seemingly paradoxical result: a bright spot caused by diffraction in line with a circular obstacle. Poisson was thwarted when this phenomenon’s namesake observed the predicted bright spot.
ANSWER: Arago spot [prompt on Poisson bright spot] &lt;Physics&gt;
[10] Diffraction in the near field, or in other words close to the aperture, is described by this name. This approximation was developed by a scientist who championed a wave theory of light in an 1818 contest at the French Academy of Science.
ANSWER: Fresnel (“fruh-NELL”) diffraction
[10] Name this process in which waves create a pattern of high and low intensity when passing over an edge or through a narrow aperture.
ANSWER: diffraction

289.
ID: 38782  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature World
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet F (Yale A, Gettysburg A, and Iowa) | Number: 20
BONUS: The servant Lucrécia (“loo-kreh-see-ah”) is threatened with the title object of this author’s story “The Case of the Stick” when a joke told by the protagonist distracts her from work. For 10 points each:
[10] In a Lispector story named for The Imitation of Christ, a woman agonizes over whether to give away some of these flowers. A Robert Burns song says that “my love is like” one of these flowers “that’s newly sprung in June.”
ANSWER: roses &lt;World Literature&gt;
[10] In this other Brazilian author’s “The Fifth Story,” the narrator gives different accounts of killings of cockroaches. The title character of this woman’s novel The Passion According to G.H. kills and eats a cockroach.
ANSWER: Clarice Lispector
[10] Name this author of the short story “Midnight Mass.” In a novella by this author, Bacamarte opens an asylum called the Green House.
ANSWER: Joaquim Maria Machado de Assis (“muh-SHAH-doo jee uh-SEES”)

290.
ID: 38783  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet F (Yale A, Gettysburg A, and Iowa) | Number: 21
BONUS: The Covox Speech Thing produced audio from a computer input using an example of these devices called an <em>R</em>–2<em>R</em> resistor ladder. For 10 points each:
[10] The performance of high-speed DACs is limited by the settling time. In this part of the settling time, which starts after the dead time, the DAC output voltage changes as fast as it can. This term also describes how quickly an amplifier can respond to an abrupt change in input.
ANSWER: slew time [or slewing time; accept slew rate] &lt;Other Science (Engineering)&gt;
[10] Due to the Nyquist–Shannon theorem, the bandwidth of signals that a DAC can reproduce is limited by the sampling value for this quantity, measured in hertz.
ANSWER: frequency
[10] Name these devices that may also produce a filtered PWM signal. These devices produce a continuous output voltage from a binary input.
ANSWER: digital-to-analog converter [or DAC; accept D-to-A converter]

291.
ID: 38784  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Geography | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet G (Cambridge A, Carleton College A, and Penn A) | Number: 1
BONUS: This city’s Idumota Market is a hub for home video distribution. For 10 points each:
[10] In order to stop coastal erosion, this planned city is being built adjacent to Lagos by reclaiming land from the Atlantic Ocean on the site of Bar Beach.
ANSWER: Eko Atlantic City [or Nigeria International Commerce City] &lt;Geography&gt;
[10] Lagos is the most populous city in this African country, which moved its capital from Lagos to the planned city of Abuja in 1991.
ANSWER: Nigeria
[10] Name this populous lagoon city divided into two major sections: a “Mainland” that includes the port of Apapa, and an “Island” that includes Ikoyi and Bar Beach.
ANSWER: Lagos

292.
ID: 38785  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet G (Cambridge A, Carleton College A, and Penn A) | Number: 2
BONUS: This man became the highest-profile person to be executed in a “legal purge” in his country after World War II. For 10 points each:
[10] A Norwegian facility to produce this substance was successfully sabotaged in 1943 by British commandos in Operation Gunnerside.
ANSWER: heavy water [or deuterium oxide; accept D2O or 2H2O; do not accept or prompt on “water” or “H2O”] &lt;European History&gt;
[10] Quisling was the wartime leader of this country. This was the northernmost country that was part of Nazi Germany’s “Atlantic Wall.”
ANSWER: Norway
[10] Name this politician who overthrew Haakon VII to take power in 1940.
ANSWER: Vidkun Quisling

293.
ID: 38786  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet G (Cambridge A, Carleton College A, and Penn A) | Number: 3
BONUS: This composer’s most famous piece begins with a solo English horn playing a folk song from the Cévennes (“say-VEN”) region; that theme reappears in all three of its movements. For 10 points each:
[10] Like César Franck’s (“say-zar FRONK’s”) Symphonic Variations, Symphony on a French Mountain Air prominently features this instrument. This instrument is also featured in a set of 24 variations on a violin caprice whose 18th variation slows and inverts the theme.
ANSWER: piano [or pianoforte] (The last piece described is Rachmaninoff’s Rhapsody on a Theme of Paganini.) &lt;Music&gt;
[10] Two other students of Vincent D’Indy were Arthur Honegger (“ar-TOOR oh-neh-GAIR”) and Darius Milhaud (“dar-YOOS mee-YO”), who were members of this group of French composers based in Montparnasse with a numerical name.
ANSWER: Les Six (“lay SEESE”) [or The Six]
[10] Name this composer of Symphony on a French Mountain Air who also taught students such as Cole Porter, Isaac Albéniz (“ee-SAHK all-BAY-neese”), and Erik Satie.
ANSWER: Vincent D’Indy (“van-SAWN dan-DEE”)

294.
ID: 38787  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet G (Cambridge A, Carleton College A, and Penn A) | Number: 4
BONUS: The minor poet Henry Petowe (“”) wrote a completion of this unfinished poem. For 10 points each:
[10] This poem by Marlowe occasioned many poetic replies, including John Donne’s (“dun’s”) “The Bait” and a parodic reply by Walter Raleigh.
ANSWER: “The Passionate Shepherd to His Love” &lt;British Literature&gt;
[10] Hero and Leander was the longest poem written by this British author before his death in a Deptford pub brawl in 1593. His dramatic works include The Jew of Malta and Doctor Faustus.
ANSWER: Christopher Marlowe [or Kit Marlowe]
[10] Name this poem whose divisions were called “sestiads” by George Chapman, who also wrote a completion of it. As You Like It quotes this poem’s line “Whoever loved, that loved not at first sight?”
ANSWER: Hero and Leander

295.
ID: 38788  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet G (Cambridge A, Carleton College A, and Penn A) | Number: 5
BONUS: Generating vaccines that target this enzyme instead of hemagglutinin may be a promising approach for creating “universal” influenza vaccines. For 10 points each:
[10] Following the fusion of membranes, influenza nucleoproteins that encapsulate negative strands of these nucleic acids are released into the cell.
ANSWER: RNA [or ribonucleic acids] &lt;Biology&gt;
[10] Hemagglutinin helps the influenza viral membrane to fuse with the membrane of these organelles. “Late” examples of these organelles fuse to lysosomes and are sometimes called multivesicular bodies.
ANSWER: endosomes [prompt on vesicles]
[10] Name this enzyme that cleaves terminal sialic acid residues during exit of virions. Zanamivir (“zuh-NAM-uh-veer”) and oseltamivir (“aw-sul-TAM-uh-veer”) inhibit this enzyme.
ANSWER: neuraminidase [or NA; prompt on sialidase]

296.
ID: 38789  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet G (Cambridge A, Carleton College A, and Penn A) | Number: 6
BONUS: In <em>The Art of Cruelty</em>, Maggie Nelson notes that she would’ve loved to have seen a version of this artist’s work <em>Jet of Water</em> painted by a 79-year-old Sylvia Plath instead. For 10 points each:
[10] The other major visual inspiration for Figure with Meat was this 17th-century artist’s painting Flayed Ox. This Dutchman painted The Night Watch.
ANSWER: Rembrandt van Rijn [accept either underlined portion; or Rembrandt Harmenszoon van Rijn] &lt;Painting&gt;
[10] Figure with Meat is one of the many paintings by Bacon that were inspired by Diego Velázquez’s 1650 portrait of this pope.
ANSWER: Innocent X (“the tenth”) [or Giovanni Battista Pamphili]
[10] Name this artist who depicted a man sitting in front of two bisected halves of a cow in his painting Figure with Meat.
ANSWER: Francis Bacon

297.
ID: 38790  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Mythology | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet G (Cambridge A, Carleton College A, and Penn A) | Number: 7
BONUS: The first author known by name, Enheduanna, was the high priestess of this goddess. For 10 points each:
[10] A largely discredited theory posits that the figure on the Queen of the Night relief is an early depiction of this figure, a beautiful female demon known for stealing young children.
ANSWER: Lilith &lt;Mythology&gt;
[10] Ishtar is a possible candidate for the identity of the nude, winged figure depicted on this terracotta plaque on display at the British Museum. The central figure of this work uses her talons to perch on two lions.
ANSWER: Queen of the Night Relief [or Burney Relief]
[10] Name this ancient goddess of love who descends into the realm of her sister Ereshkigal. The later Levantine goddess Astarte is considered to be a version of this deity.
ANSWER: Ishtar [or Inanna]

298.
ID: 38791  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet G (Cambridge A, Carleton College A, and Penn A) | Number: 8
BONUS: This geometry is exemplified by sulfur hexafluoride. For 10 points each:
[10] Octahedral complexes undergo this effect in order to break degeneracy of their d orbitals. In this effect, one axis of the complex elongates.
ANSWER: Jahn–Teller (“yahn teller”) effect [or Jahn–Teller distortion] &lt;Chemistry&gt;
[10] Octahedral complexes in which the central metal atom is bonded to three bidentate chelates can isomerize via two mechanisms, neither of which involve breaking the metal–chelate bond. Name either.
ANSWER: Ray–Dutt twist OR Bailar twist [accept either underlined portion]
[10] Name this molecular geometry where six atoms bond symmetrically to a central atom, corresponding to the vertices of a platonic solid.
ANSWER: octahedral geometry

299.
ID: 38792  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature World
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet G (Cambridge A, Carleton College A, and Penn A) | Number: 9
BONUS: This author created Fred Peloux, who goes to dinner with his friend Desmond and stays for months awaiting the return of his wife Lea. For 10 points each:
[10] In another novella by Colette, Camille is jealous of her husband Alain’s love for one of these animals and throws it off a balcony. Lewis Carroll created one of these animals who disappears gradually until only his grin is visible.
ANSWER: cat [or La Chatte; accept Cheshire Cat] &lt;European Literature&gt;
[10] Colette wrote four novels about this recurring character, including one about her “at school,” in which she clashes with her headmistress Miss Sergent before having an affair with her assistant Miss Lanthenay.
ANSWER: Claudine
[10] Identify this one-named French author of Cheri, who wrote about a girl born into a family of courtesans in Gigi.
ANSWER: Colette [or Sidonie-Gabrielle Colette]

300.
ID: 38793  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet G (Cambridge A, Carleton College A, and Penn A) | Number: 10
BONUS: Answer the following about the history of Bolivia in the 19th century, for 10 points each.
[10] Bolivia’s economy became more dependent on the mining of this resource towards the end of the 19th century. The British Isles were an important source of this resource in antiquity.
ANSWER: tin &lt;World History&gt;
[10] Bolivia lost its Pacific coastline to Chile and Peru in a war fought over this mineral resource that is used in fertilizer and gunpowder. That war is sometimes named after this resource.
ANSWER: saltpeter [or sodium nitrate; accept Saltpeter War or Guerra del Salitre]
[10] This South American independence leader, along with his lieutenant Antonio José de Sucre, was instrumental in winning Bolivia its independence.
ANSWER: Simón Bolívar [or Simón José Antonio de la Santísima Trinidad Bolívar Palacios Ponte y Blanco]

301.
ID: 38794  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Other
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet G (Cambridge A, Carleton College A, and Penn A) | Number: 11
BONUS: Many later works of art depicted this man’s supposed relationship with his model, the courtesan Phryne (“FRY-nee”). For 10 points each:
[10] This other renowned sculptor of the 4th century BC was the personal sculptor of Alexander the Great. He or his circle created the bronze originals from which the Apoxyomenos (“apoxy-OM-uh-nohss”) and the Farnese Hercules (“far-NAY-zay Hercules”) were copied.
ANSWER: Lysippos &lt;Other Arts&gt;
[10] Praxiteles became the first creator of a full-scale female nude with his depiction of this goddess for her temple at Knidos. He was also once thought to have created a now-armless statue of this goddess found on Milos.
ANSWER: Aphrodite [or Venus; accept Aphrodite Cnidus or Aphrodite of Milos or Venus de Milo]
[10] Name this ancient Greek sculptor who portrayed a youthful god leaning against a tree and striking at a lizard in his Apollo Sauroktonos.
ANSWER: Praxiteles

302.
ID: 38795  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Religion | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet G (Cambridge A, Carleton College A, and Penn A) | Number: 12
BONUS: This work is divided into five sections, the first of which runs from Advent to Christmas. For 10 points each:
[10] A chapter of the Golden Legend nominally dedicated to Pope Pelagius includes an extensive biography of this other historical figure. In that chapter, this figure is deceived by the heretical monk Sergius.
ANSWER: Muhammad [or Mahomet] &lt;Religion&gt;
[10] The Golden Legend consists of hagiographies, which are biographies of Christian people of this type.
ANSWER: Christian saints
[10] Name this work compiled by Jacobus da Varagine (“va-RAH-jee-nay”). Due to its massive popularity among medieval readers, it was one of the first books to be mass distributed by printing press.
ANSWER: the Golden Legend [or Legenda Aurea]

303.
ID: 38796  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Philosophy | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet G (Cambridge A, Carleton College A, and Penn A) | Number: 13
BONUS: Kierkegaard applied this concept to the type of “guilt” felt by one experiencing the “dizziness of freedom” that constitutes anxiety. For 10 points each:
[10] In 1971, de Beauvoir authored the “Manifesto of the 343,” in which she declared that she had performed this action. Judith Jarvis Thomson wrote about a violinist who needs a blood transfusion in a philosophical “defense” of this action.
ANSWER: abortion [accept equivalents, such as ending a pregnancy] &lt;Philosophy&gt;
[10] The Ethics of Ambiguity is a book by this French existentialist philosopher who wrote that “One is not born, but rather becomes, a woman” in The Second Sex.
ANSWER: Simone de Beauvoir
[10] Name this concept. A 1947 work titled for the “ethics” of this concept argues that unlike “absurdity,” it allows man “through failure and outrage, to save his existence” by working toward securing the freedom of others.
ANSWER: ambiguity [or ambiguous; accept The Ethics of Ambiguity or Pour une morale de l’ambiguïté]

304.
ID: 38797  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature World
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet G (Cambridge A, Carleton College A, and Penn A) | Number: 14
BONUS: The narrator of Hella Haasse’s novel <em>The Black Lake</em> grows up in this modern-day country. For 10 points each:
[10] Vicki Baum used the 1906 Dutch intervention in Bali as the setting for a novel named after these two concepts. A book named after these two concepts partly grew out of the essay “Come Back to the Raft Ag’in, Huck Honey!”
ANSWER: love AND death [accept Love and Death in Bali or Love and Death in the American Novel] &lt;Other Literature&gt;
[10] The aforementioned novels all deal with the colonization of Indonesia by this European country.
ANSWER: Netherlands [or Nederland; accept Holland or the Dutch]
[10] Name this modern-day country which is the setting of Multatuli’s novel Max Havelaar. It’s the home country of Minke, the protagonist of This Earth of Mankind by Pramoedya Ananta Toer (“prah-MOOD-yah ah-nan-tah TOOR”).
ANSWER: Indonesia [or Republic of Indonesia; or Republik Indonesia]

305.
ID: 38798  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History Classical
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet G (Cambridge A, Carleton College A, and Penn A) | Number: 15
BONUS: This historian was Hadrian’s secretary, but was dismissed after he got too close to Hadrian’s wife Sabina. For 10 points each:
[10] However, the public record shows Augustus’s last words to be “I found Rome a city of” this material and “left it a city of” this other material. Please give the two materials in the order as they were in the original quote.
ANSWER: brick AND marble [accept clay in place of “brick”] &lt;Ancient History&gt;
[10] According to Suetonius, the last words of this first emperor of Rome were “Have I played the part well? Then applaud as I exit.”
ANSWER: Augustus [accept Octavian]
[10] Name this author of The Twelve Caesars.
ANSWER: Gaius Suetonius Tranquillus

306.
ID: 38799  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Other
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet G (Cambridge A, Carleton College A, and Penn A) | Number: 16
BONUS: Cataclysmic variables are a type of this system in which a donor provides mass to the accretion disc of a white dwarf. For 10 points each:
[10] This class of eclipsing binaries, named for the “Demon Star” of Perseus, is semi-detached, meaning that the more massive primary component has an unfilled Roche lobe. The larger secondary component of this system lies above the main sequence and fills its Roche lobe.
ANSWER: Algol variables &lt;Other Science (Astronomy)&gt;
[10] The area where mass is gravitationally bound to one member of a binary system is a teardrop-shaped “lobe” of this name, after a French astronomer. This name also describes the point at which an object disintegrates due to tidal forces.
ANSWER: Roche lobe [accept Roche limit or Roche radius]
[10] Name these two-component systems. One type of these systems changes in magnitude as its members eclipse each other.
ANSWER: binary stars [or binary systems; accept eclipsing binaries]

307.
ID: 38800  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet G (Cambridge A, Carleton College A, and Penn A) | Number: 17
BONUS: This psychologist co-names with “Nebraska” a battery of tests used to determine neuropsychological deficiencies on fourteen scales. For 10 points each:
[10] Luria’s postwar work included research into the regulative function of this ability as a source of voluntary behavior. Individuals with Broca’s aphasia often suffer from “automatism” associated with this ability.
ANSWER: speech [or speaking or talking or equivalents; prompt on language] &lt;Social Science&gt;
[10] Luria noted that when Shereshevsky heard a musical tone, he would see a color, suggesting that he had this disorder in which the stimulation of one sense leads to automatic experiences in other senses.
ANSWER: synesthesia [or word forms, such as synesthetic]
[10] Name this Soviet neuropsychologist who published a case study about the incredible memory abilities of journalist Solomon Shereshevsky in his The Mind of a Mnemonist.
ANSWER: Alexander Luria

308.
ID: 38801  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet G (Cambridge A, Carleton College A, and Penn A) | Number: 18
BONUS: Like the essay that follows it, “Many Thousands Gone,” this essay criticizes the depiction of the character Bigger Thomas. For 10 points each:
[10] Frantz Fanon (“fah-NAWN”) wrote that Bigger Thomas acted in response to “the world’s anticipation” in this book, whose section “The Negro and Psychopathology” analyzes the psychological effects of colonization on black people.
ANSWER: Black Skin, White Masks [or Peau noire, masques blancs] &lt;American Literature&gt;
[10] “Everybody’s Protest Novel” compares Uncle Tom’s Cabin to this Richard Wright novel in which Bigger Thomas murders Mary Dalton and Bessie Mears.
ANSWER: Native Son
[10] Name this James Baldwin essay that calls Uncle Tom’s Cabin a “very bad novel” because of its excessive sentimentality.
ANSWER: “Everybody’s Protest Novel”

309.
ID: 38802  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet G (Cambridge A, Carleton College A, and Penn A) | Number: 19
BONUS: This slogan titles a 2001 book on “tourism and national identity” by Miami University professor Marguerite S. Shaffer. For 10 points each:
[10] This national park was billed as “America’s Switzerland” by the Great Northern Railway. This Montana park contains the Triple Divide of the Americas.
ANSWER: Glacier National Park &lt;American History&gt;
[10] The “See America First” campaign was largely funded by this industry. The Union Pacific and Central Pacific were two companies in this industry.
ANSWER: railroad industry [or train industry; accept equivalents]
[10] Give this three-word phrase used in early 20th-century advertising to convince wealthy Americans to visit domestic tourist sites rather than go abroad.
ANSWER: “See America First”

310.
ID: 38803  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet G (Cambridge A, Carleton College A, and Penn A) | Number: 20
BONUS: This physicist and an Indian colleague proposed a state of matter that forms when the total number of particles exceeds the total occupation number of all excited states. For 10 points each:
[10] The spectrum of these excitations in BECs can be derived from a perturbative expansion to the Gross–Pitaevskii (“pih-TAH-yiff-ski”) equation. The theory was developed by a Soviet physicist who also developed a quasi-particle transformation to diagonalize the Hamiltonian for BCS superconductors.
ANSWER: Bogoliubov (“bo-go-LYOO-bov”) excitations [or Bogoliubov spectrum; accept Bogoliubov transformation] &lt;Physics&gt;
[10] The first atomic BEC was created by Eric Cornell’s group at JILA with atoms of this alkali metal using evaporative cooling in a magnetic trap. Those experiments used the isotope of this element with mass number 87, which is less common than its 85 isotope.
ANSWER: rubidium-87 [or Rb-87]
[10] Name this physicist who, along with Bose, proposed those condenstates in which a macroscopic fraction of bosons all occupy a single quantum state.
ANSWER: Albert Einstein [accept Bose–Einstein condensates]

311.
ID: 38804  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet G (Cambridge A, Carleton College A, and Penn A) | Number: 21
BONUS: According to Bell’s theorem, no theory of quantum mechanics can possess hidden variables and this property. For 10 points each:
[10] Many experiments that test local hidden variable theory, such as those of Freedman, Clauser, and Aspect in the 1970s and ’80s, measured this degree of freedom of entangled photons produced by calcium sources. This degree of freedom corresponds to the geometrical orientation of a transverse wave.
ANSWER: polarization &lt;Physics&gt;
[10] This thought experiment by Einstein and two other physicists used showed that quantum mechanics allows for nonclassical correlations and argued that it is an incomplete theory because it violates local realism.
ANSWER: EPR paradox [or Einstein–Podolsky–Rosen paradox]
[10] Name this property that is contrasted with “action at a distance.”
ANSWER: locality

312.
ID: 38805  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet H (Cambridge B, Berkeley B, Columbia B, and Cornell) | Number: 1
BONUS: According to this thinker, transcendence is achieved through awareness of that which is “intrinsic, the most essential” but “never expressed,” or what he termed “the ineffable.” For 10 points each:
[10] Heschel also often criticized this other Jewish philosopher’s views on prophetic revelation, writing at one point that “a lot has happened between the Bible and Hasidism that” this author of I and Thou “did not pay attention to.”
ANSWER: Martin Buber &lt;Philosophy&gt;
[10] Heschel frequently criticized the following of mitzvot (“meets-VOTE”) without any rationale, calling it a “religious” form of this intellectual approach, whose pioneers such as B. F. Skinner emphasized the role of operant conditioning in how people act.
ANSWER: behaviorism [or behaviorist; accept religious behaviorism or radical behaviorism]
[10] Name this theologian and philosopher who examined Jewish ideas about the relationship between God and people in works such as Man Is Not Alone and God In Search of Man.
ANSWER: Abraham Joshua Heschel

313.
ID: 38806  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet H (Cambridge B, Berkeley B, Columbia B, and Cornell) | Number: 2
BONUS: An inscription on a double-pillar monument claims that victims of an accident on this island were sacrificed by “imperialist voracity.” For 10 points each:
[10] Wheeler is one of the few Confederate officers buried in this “national cemetery” in Virginia.
ANSWER: Arlington National Cemetery &lt;American History&gt;
[10] During the Battle of Las Guasimas in Cuba, this former Confederate general and representative from Alabama nicknamed “Fighting Joe” yelled out in excitement “We’ve got the damn Yankees on the run again!”
ANSWER: Joseph Wheeler
[10] Name this island that the United States promised to not annex in the Teller Amendment.
ANSWER: Cuba

314.
ID: 38807  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet H (Cambridge B, Berkeley B, Columbia B, and Cornell) | Number: 3
BONUS: The enzyme that catalyzes this process binds to the TATA box in eukaryotic promoters and was crystallized for the first time by Roger Kornberg, who received a Nobel Prize for his work. For 10 points each:
[10] This form of transcription results in the production of short, 2-to-15-base-pair RNA fragments. It occurs when the RNA polymerase cannot escape the promoter due to DNA scrunching.
ANSWER: abortive transcription [or abortive initiation] &lt;Biology&gt;
[10] RNA polymerase in prokaryotes requires one of these factors to initiate transcription. These factors are homologous to the eukaryotic TFIIB (“T-F-2-B”), and their 70-kilodalton variant controls transcription of housekeeping genes.
ANSWER: sigma factors
[10] Name this process catalyzed by RNA polymerase in which RNA molecules are synthesized from a DNA template.
ANSWER: transcription

315.
ID: 38808  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet H (Cambridge B, Berkeley B, Columbia B, and Cornell) | Number: 4
BONUS: The schoolteacher Wing Biddlebaum flees to this town after being accused of child molestation. For 10 points each:
[10] In this story from Winesburg, Ohio, the preacher Curtis Hartman becomes infatuated with Kate Swift after seeing her naked through a hole in the church’s bell tower.
ANSWER: “The Strength of God” &lt;American Literature&gt;
[10] This protagonist of Winesburg, Ohio is a journalist for the Winesburg Eagle and befriends Wing Biddlebaum. He is attracted to his former teacher Kate Swift, who “recognizes the spark of genius” in him.
ANSWER: George Willard [accept either underlined portion]
[10] Name this fictional Ohio town whose inhabitants are described as “grotesques” at the beginning of a Sherwood Anderson book.
ANSWER: Winesburg, Ohio

316.
ID: 38809  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Other
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet H (Cambridge B, Berkeley B, Columbia B, and Cornell) | Number: 5
BONUS: Answer the following about the pioneering street photographer and <em>flâneur</em> (“flaw-NURR”) Eugène Atget (“aht-ZHAY”), for 10 points each.
[10] A meeting with Atget helped inspire this pseudonymous Hungarian-born artist, who was also tutored by André Kertész (“CARE-tace”), to take up photography. He published his first collection, Paris by Night, in 1933.
ANSWER: Brassaï [or Gyula Halász] &lt;Other Arts&gt;
[10] Atget’s work was first “discovered” by Berenice Abbott and this surrealist, who depicted Kiki of Montparnasse with f-holes on her back in his photograph Violon d’Ingres (“vee-oh-LAWN DAN-gruh”).
ANSWER: Man Ray [or Emmanuel Radnitzky]
[10] Most of Atget’s work was done in this capital city. This city’s Boulevard du Temple was where Louis Daguerre took the first candid photograph of a person.
ANSWER: Paris

317.
ID: 38810  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet H (Cambridge B, Berkeley B, Columbia B, and Cornell) | Number: 6
BONUS: A book by this thinker argues that the “symbiotic milieu” caused by the title <em>Retreat of the State</em> has made it difficult to redress the “collective colonialism” administered by international organizations. For 10 points each:
[10] Strange’s essay notes that global capital’s use of “havens” such as the Cayman Islands and Luxembourg to avoid paying these things makes financial regulation under the Westphalian system extremely difficult.
ANSWER: taxes [accept more specific forms of taxation] &lt;Social Science&gt;
[10] In an essay titled for a portmanteau of this international system with the word “failure,” Strange argued that it makes socioeconomic polarization impossible to address. This system, in which nation-states have full sovereignty over their territory, is named after a 1648 treaty.
ANSWER: Westphalian system [or Westphalia system; accept Westphalian sovereignty]
[10] Name this British thinker who highlighted the political impact of global finance in works such as States and Markets, a key influence on the field of international political economy.
ANSWER: Susan Strange

318.
ID: 38811  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Religion | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet H (Cambridge B, Berkeley B, Columbia B, and Cornell) | Number: 7
BONUS: Like the neighboring Ewe (“AY-way”), people of this ethnicity worship the female creator goddess Nana Buluku. For 10 points each:
[10] Though they have largely converted to Islam, some members of this African ethnic group still practice Bori, a traditional spirit religion. In northern Nigeria, they have undergone extensive mixing with the Fulani.
ANSWER: Hausa &lt;Religion&gt;
[10] The Fon traditionally use this word as the name of their religion. Slaves brought the name to the New World, and it is now the common name for a set of African diaspora religions prominent in places like Haiti and Louisiana.
ANSWER: Vodun [or voodoo]
[10] Name this ethnic group who venerate their ancestors by not burying them until three years after death and also pay tribute to the trickster deity Legba.
ANSWER: Fon people [or the Dahomey]

319.
ID: 38812  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet H (Cambridge B, Berkeley B, Columbia B, and Cornell) | Number: 8
BONUS: The speaker of a poem by this author claims that “a sonnet is a moment’s monument” to introduce his sonnet sequence <em>The House of Life</em>. For 10 points each:
[10] At the end of “The Blessed Damozel,” the speaker states parenthetically that he heard some of these things. In “Goblin Market,” Laura drops one of these objects “more rare than pearl” when she cuts off a lock of her hair.
ANSWER: tears &lt;British Literature&gt;
[10] Dante Gabriel Rossetti’s sister Christina wrote a narrative poem in which the sisters Laura and Lizzie encounter a market in which these sinister beings beckon them to “come buy, come buy” their fruits.
ANSWER: goblins [accept “Goblin Market”]
[10] Name this English poet and painter who wrote about a woman who “leaned out from the gold bar of Heaven” in a poem published in The Germ.
ANSWER: Dante Gabriel Rossetti [or Gabriel Charles Dante Rossetti; prompt on Rossetti]

320.
ID: 38813  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet H (Cambridge B, Berkeley B, Columbia B, and Cornell) | Number: 9
BONUS: Diffusive equilibrium occurs when this quantity is the same between two systems in contact with each other. For 10 points each:
[10] In the grand canonical ensemble, the probability distribution named for this physicist includes chemical potential as well as energy. That distribution named for this physicist is normalized by the partition function and gives probabilities in thermal equilibrium.
ANSWER: Ludwig Boltzmann [accept Boltzmann distribution or Boltzmann factor] &lt;Physics&gt;
[10] The chemical potential and the reservoir temperature characterize this statistical formalism that allows for particles and heat to be exchanged with a reservoir.
ANSWER: grand canonical ensemble [do not accept or prompt on partial answer]
[10] Name this quantity that corresponds to energy lost or gained when particles are exchanged.
ANSWER: chemical potential [prompt on mu]

321.
ID: 38814  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History Classical
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet H (Cambridge B, Berkeley B, Columbia B, and Cornell) | Number: 10
BONUS: This ruler had his golden earring ripped off along with his earlobe while being paraded during a Roman triumph. For 10 points each:
[10] This future dictator and rival of Gaius Marius was responsible for the capture of Jugurtha. The first wave of mass proscriptions took place during his dictatorship.
ANSWER: Sulla [or Lucius Cornelius Sulla Felix] &lt;Ancient History&gt;
[10] Jugurtha was a ruler of this North African kingdom. The first ruler of this kingdom, Massinissa, was given its land because he allied with the Romans against the Carthage-aligned Syphax.
ANSWER: Numidia
[10] Name this ruler who was captured due to the betrayal of his father-in-law Bocchus I.
ANSWER: Jugurtha

322.
ID: 38815  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet H (Cambridge B, Berkeley B, Columbia B, and Cornell) | Number: 11
BONUS: When 589-nanometer light is used to measure this property, a subscript D, for the sodium D-line, is attached to the symbol that denotes it. For 10 points each:
[10] This quantity, which is 0 percent for a racemic (“ruh-SEE-mick”) mixture, indicates the purity of a chiral (“KYE-rull”) sample by comparing the mole fractions of different enantiomers.
ANSWER: enantiomeric excess [or ee; prompt on enantiopurity] &lt;Chemistry&gt;
[10] Only molecules with this property have optical activity. Molecules with this property, from the Greek for “handedness,” are non-superimposable on their mirror images.
ANSWER: chirality (“kye-RAL-ih-tee”)
[10] Name this property that is equal and opposite for dextrorotatory and levorotatory molecules. It is denoted by an alpha in brackets with a superscript and a subscript for the associated temperature and wavelength.
ANSWER: specific rotation [prompt on optical rotation; prompt on optical activity]

323.
ID: 38816  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet H (Cambridge B, Berkeley B, Columbia B, and Cornell) | Number: 12
BONUS: In the best-known painting of this man, he reclines awkwardly on a chair with a vaguely phallic baton between his legs, staring at a Portuguese flag. For 10 points each:
[10] Late in life, Godoy praised this series of 80 etchings by Goya, the publication of which he may have aided. Haunting owls attack a sleeping man in The Sleep of Reason Produces Monsters, a work from this series.
ANSWER: Los Caprichos [or The Caprices] &lt;Painting&gt;
[10] Godoy was a close friend and patron of this Spanish artist. Godoy’s poor handling of the Peninsular War inspired this artist’s painting Third of May, 1808 and his late Black Paintings.
ANSWER: Francisco de Goya
[10] Name this politician who probably commissioned the artist of that portrait to paint a pair of “clothed” and “naked” majas (“MA-hahs”) for his home, which he entertainingly interchanged using an automated pulley system.
ANSWER: Manuel Godoy [or Manuel Godoy y Alvarez de Faria]

324.
ID: 38817  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature European
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet H (Cambridge B, Berkeley B, Columbia B, and Cornell) | Number: 13
BONUS: One of the first actors to play this role recalled taking a year to understand why the playwright said this character should wear checked trousers, despite being adored by women. For 10 points each:
[10] After a rocky premiere, The Seagull became popular after its staging at the Moscow Art Theatre by this man, who created a namesake acting method detailed in An Actor Prepares.
ANSWER: Konstantin Stanislavski [or Konstantin Sergeievich Alexeiev] &lt;European Literature&gt;
[10] Trigorin is a character from this Russian dramatist’s The Seagull.
ANSWER: Anton Chekhov [or Anton Pavlovich Chekhov]
[10] Name this character who receives a medallion inscribed with the words “If you ever need my life, come and take it” from an obsessive love interest in Act III of the play in which he appears.
ANSWER: Boris Trigorin [accept either underlined portion]

325.
ID: 38818  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet H (Cambridge B, Berkeley B, Columbia B, and Cornell) | Number: 14
BONUS: Felix Mendelssohn and a 12-year-old Joseph Joachim (“YO-zef YO-ah-kim”) revived this composer’s violin concerto in 1844. For 10 points each:
[10] Mendelssohn most famously revived interest in this Baroque composer with a performance of his St. Matthew Passion. This composer also wrote the Goldberg Variations.
ANSWER: Johann Sebastian Bach [prompt on Bach] &lt;Music&gt;
[10] Mendelssohn also revived this symphony after Robert Schumann brought him the score. Schumann described this symphony as having a “heavenly length,” though many orchestras of the time simply thought it was too long.
ANSWER: Symphony No. 9 by Franz Schubert [or the “Great” C major Symphony; or D. 944; prompt on partial answer; prompt on answers that describe it as Symphony No. 7 or 8]
[10] Name this composer whose Violin Concerto in D major begins with a solo timpani playing four beats. This composer also wrote a Triple Concerto in C major for violin, cello, and piano.
ANSWER: Ludwig van Beethoven

326.
ID: 38819  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet H (Cambridge B, Berkeley B, Columbia B, and Cornell) | Number: 15
BONUS: Upon the appointment of the Count of Polignac (“po-leen-YAHK”) as Prime Minister, this statesman immediately wrote that “The King rules, but does not govern.” For 10 points each:
[10] Louis Philippe was overthrown in February of this year. Nationalist movements broke out in Austria, Germany, and France in this year.
ANSWER: 1848 &lt;European History&gt;
[10] Adolphe Thiers met with this Duke of Orléans (“or-lay-AWN”) and helped convince him to take the crown during the July Revolution. He was known as the “Citizen-King.”
ANSWER: Louis Philippe I
[10] Name this statesman and later Prime Minister of France who founded the National as an opposition newspaper against Charles X.
ANSWER: Adolphe Thiers (“tee-AIR”) [or Marie Joseph Louis Adolphe Thiers]

327.
ID: 38820  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Mythology | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet H (Cambridge B, Berkeley B, Columbia B, and Cornell) | Number: 16
BONUS: According to legend, because this building was built on a very narrow peninsula, it could be effectively guarded by three men standing side by side. For 10 points each:
[10] Uther enlists the help of this wizard to turn himself into Gorlois and sleep with Igraine. He later becomes eternally trapped in a tree by the Lady of the Lake.
ANSWER: Merlin [or Merlinus] &lt;Mythology&gt;
[10] Uther Pendragon’s covert infiltration of Tintagel Castle and the subsequent conception of Arthur occurs in the 8th book of this man’s history of the kings of Britain, the first to contain a full account of Arthur’s life.
ANSWER: Geoffrey of Monmouth
[10] Name this building in Cornwall. A famous action performed in this building is taken while most of its forces are busy defending a siege of the nearby Dimilloc.
ANSWER: Tintagel (“tin-TADGE-ull”) Castle

328.
ID: 38821  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature World
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet H (Cambridge B, Berkeley B, Columbia B, and Cornell) | Number: 17
BONUS: Baby Kochamma converts to Catholicism to flatter Father Mulligan in this novel. For 10 points each:
[10] The Verso Books volume In Praise of Disobedience collects some of the 1891 writings of this author, including “The Soul of Man Under Socialism” and excerpts from The Picture of Dorian Gray.
ANSWER: Oscar Wilde [or Oscar Fingal O’Flahertie Wills Wilde] &lt;World Literature&gt;
[10] The author of The God of Small Things, Arundhati Roy, contributed to the essay collection Kashmir: The Case for Freedom, which was published by this radical publishing house whose logo is a red V.
ANSWER: Verso Books
[10] Name this 1997 novel about the fraternal twins Estha and Rahel, who live in Kerala (“CARE-uh-luh”). In a scene from this novel, Estha is molested by the Orangedrink Lemondrink Man.
ANSWER: The God of Small Things

329.
ID: 38822  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Trash | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet H (Cambridge B, Berkeley B, Columbia B, and Cornell) | Number: 18
BONUS: One character in this film travels to a traditional shrine in a cave at Itomori, where he drinks three-year-old <em>kuchikamizake</em> in an effort to save the town of Itomori from a comet strike. For 10 points each:
[10] Shinkai’s early hand-animated short films include one in which he voiced one of these animals named Chobi. A twelve-legged one of these animals serves as a magical bus in the Hayao Miyazaki film My Neighbor Totoro.
ANSWER: cat [or neko; accept Catbus or Nekobasu] &lt;Trash&gt;
[10] Your Name was directed by this man, whose other films include 5 Centimeters Per Second and The Garden of Words.
ANSWER: Makoto Shinkai
[10] Name this 2016 animated movie in which the high schoolers Taki Tachibana and Mitsuha Miyamizu intermittently switch bodies.
ANSWER: Your Name [or Kimi no Na wa]

330.
ID: 38823  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet H (Cambridge B, Berkeley B, Columbia B, and Cornell) | Number: 19
BONUS: This man killed himself after he received an ultimatum to resign after he had his political opponent Carlos Lacerda killed. For 10 points each:
[10] Vargas strongly advocated developmental and protectionist policies, including setting up this company. In the 1960s, a series of three memoranda by geologist Walter K. Link led to this company massively changing its operations.
ANSWER: Petrobras &lt;World History&gt;
[10] Vargas was supported early in his presidency by the Integralists, a Brazilian movement that is often linked with this far-right political ideology whose name derives from a word for a bundle of rods.
ANSWER: fascism [or fascist movements]
[10] Name this leader whose first presidency ended the “coffee with milk” era in his country.
ANSWER: Getúlio Vargas (“zhay-TOOL-yoo VAR-guss”) [or Getúlio Dornelles Vargas]

331.
ID: 38824  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Other
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet H (Cambridge B, Berkeley B, Columbia B, and Cornell) | Number: 20
BONUS: Nancy Grace Roman was an early advocate for this telescope, arguing that it would overcome the limits of terrestrial observatories. For 10 points each:
[10] While Hubble primarily images in the visible and near infrared, this other NASA observatory takes data deeper in the infrared. This telescope, which imaged the twisted Double Helix Nebula, is named for a plasma physicist who developed the stellarator and advocated for orbital telescopes.
ANSWER: Spitzer Space Telescope [or SST] &lt;Other Science (Astronomy)&gt;
[10] In addition to spectrographs, Hubble carries several of these sensors for imaging. These sensors, which are widely used in astronomy, consist of tiny metal oxide capacitors and measure photoelectrons produced by incident light.
ANSWER: CCDs [or charge-coupled devices]
[10] Name this large telescope in low Earth orbit launched in 1990 that has taken many vivid images of galaxies and nebulae.
ANSWER: Hubble Space Telescope [or HST]

332.
ID: 38825  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet H (Cambridge B, Berkeley B, Columbia B, and Cornell) | Number: 21
BONUS: Answer the following about aggregation, for 10 points each.
[10] Diffusion limited aggregation produces structures with this property, which results in a simple power law for the scattering structure factor for scattering of light. Scale invariance is a stronger version of this property found in many fractals.
ANSWER: self-similarity &lt;Other Science (Mixed)&gt;
[10] Diffusion can be modeled as a process of this type, which can also model the shape of an ideal polymer chain. The average displacement in a process of this type is proportional to the square root of the number of steps.
ANSWER: random walk
[10] When aggregation is limited by this process, where particles move randomly, tending to equalize concentration, it forms fractal structures with dimension less than three.
ANSWER: diffusion [accept diffusion limited aggregation or DLA]

333.
ID: 38826  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Philosophy | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet I (OSU A, Rice A, and Yale B) | Number: 1
BONUS: Answer the following about the history of the philosophical tradition known as ‘Ilm al-Kalam, for 10 points each.
[10] A critique of certain branches of kalam closes this book written in the 1190s by a Jewish philosopher, which argues that God can only be properly described through negative conceptions.
ANSWER: Guide for the Perplexed [or Moreh Nevukhim; or Dalalat al-ha’irin; or Guide of the Perplexed; or Guide to the Perplexed] &lt;Philosophy&gt;
[10] A saint of this tradition named Khwajah Abdullah Ansari criticized kalam theology in his Dhamm al-Kalam. Thinkers in this mystic Islamic tradition often write about centers of spiritual perception called the “six subtleties.”
ANSWER: Sufism [or Tasawwuf]
[10] The Mu‘tazila school of kalam often feuded with this other school of kalam named for a scholar called the “Champion of Islam.” This school’s occasionalist theory of causation was defended by al-Ghazali.
ANSWER: Ashari school [or Asharites] (named for al-Ashari)

334.
ID: 38827  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet I (OSU A, Rice A, and Yale B) | Number: 2
BONUS: Crystals that exhibit this effect can be used for ultrasonic transducers. For 10 points each:
[10] The widely used piezoelectric material PZT is a crystal composed of this metal, zirconate, and titanate. This soft heavy metal is also commonly used in solder (“SODD-er”) alloyed with tin, though many modern products use different alloys due to health risks.
ANSWER: lead [accept lead zirconate titanate] &lt;Physics&gt;
[10] In this experimental technique, piezoelectric elements control a scanning sample stage. This technique measures the deflection of a cantilever connected to a tip.
ANSWER: atomic force microscopy [or AFM; prompt on scanning probe microscopy]
[10] Name this effect, discovered by Pierre and Jacques Curie, in which stress is converted to voltage and vice-versa.
ANSWER: piezoelectric (“pee-AY-zo-electric”) effect [or piezoelectricity]

335.
ID: 38828  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History British
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet I (OSU A, Rice A, and Yale B) | Number: 3
BONUS: Before one battle, this ruler reportedly blew into a piece of sandstone, which legendarily signaled victory for anyone who could generate a sound from it. For 10 points each:
[10] Edward led the allied Wessex and Mercian forces at this 910 battle. After this battle, no Danish armies raided English territory again. All Viking commanders involved in this battle were killed.
ANSWER: Battle of Tettenhall [or Battle of Wednesfield; or Battle of Wodnesfeld] &lt;British History&gt;
[10] Alfred was joined in many of his conquests by a son with this name. A later king with this name was the only English king to be canonized.
ANSWER: Edward [accept Edward the Elder; accept Edward the Confessor]
[10] Name this king from Wessex who is the only English king to be known as “the Great.” He signed the Treaty of Wedmore after defeating the Vikings.
ANSWER: Alfred the Great

336.
ID: 38829  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet I (OSU A, Rice A, and Yale B) | Number: 4
BONUS: Two gay sailors and a woman in a red dress study this sculpture in the painting <em>Distinguished Air</em> by Charles Demuth (“DEE-mith” or “de-MOOTH”). For 10 points each:
[10] Brâncuși’s Bird in Space series was based on this earlier sculptural series that emphasizes the massive puffed chest of its namesake golden-plumed bird from Romanian folklore.
ANSWER: Măiastra (“muh-YAHSS-trah”) &lt;Other Arts&gt;
[10] Princess X was created by this Romanian sculptor whose other works include The Endless Column and Bird in Space.
ANSWER: Constantin Brâncuși (“bran-KOOSH”)
[10] Name this bronze sculpture that attracted controversy due to its extremely phallic shape. Its artist intended it to be an abstract depiction of the vain Marie Bonaparte.
ANSWER: Princess X

337.
ID: 38830  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature European
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet I (OSU A, Rice A, and Yale B) | Number: 5
BONUS: The epigraph to the screenplay for <em>American Gigolo</em> is a quote about this character, and <em>American Gigolo</em>’s protagonist is named after him. For 10 points each:
[10] At the end of the novel, Mathilde kisses Julien’s decapitated head, reenacting a story about this queen. This queen’s nickname comes from a novel by Alexandre Dumas, père (“doo-MAH pair”).
ANSWER: Queen Margot [or La Reine Margot; or Margaret of Valois; or Marguerite de Valois] &lt;European Literature&gt;
[10] Julien Sorel is the protagonist of this author’s novel The Red and the Black.
ANSWER: Stendhal [or Marie-Henri Beyle]
[10] Name this character who courts Madame de Fervaques (“fair-VAHK”) in an attempt to make Mathilde (“mah-TEELD”) de la Mole jealous, and is later executed after attempting to murder Madame de Renal.
ANSWER: Julien Sorel [accept either underlined portion]

338.
ID: 38831  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet I (OSU A, Rice A, and Yale B) | Number: 6
BONUS: Knocking out Beclin1, a protein that regulates this process in mice, leads to increased tumor growth, which can be assayed using a cationic amphiphilic tracer by the Cyto-ID detection kit. For 10 points each:
[10] A complex between beclin1 and this protein regulates exercise-induced autophagy. This protein is an anti-apoptotic factor that is upregulated in follicular lymphoma and is the prototypical member of a family that includes bax, bak, and bid.
ANSWER: bcl-2 [or B-cell lymphoma 2] &lt;Biology&gt;
[10] The autophagosome fuses with this organelle, which contains hydrolytic enzymes used to break down waste products. Mannose-6-phosphate is used to tag proteins for transport to this organelle.
ANSWER: lysosome
[10] Name this process in which a cell breaks down and recycles its own organelles. Yoshinori Ohsumi (“OH-sue-mee”) won a Nobel for characterizing it.
ANSWER: autophagy

339.
ID: 38832  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet I (OSU A, Rice A, and Yale B) | Number: 7
BONUS: The chief formulator of this paradigm believes that it should be refined by adding a Liberty/Oppression axis. For 10 points each:
[10] Haidt claims that adherents of this political ideology are sensitive to all five moral foundations, while their counterparts are focused only on Care/Harm and Fairness/Cheating. Edmund Burke is considered a founder of the modern form of this ideology.
ANSWER: conservatism [accept word forms, such as conservative] &lt;Social Science&gt;
[10] MFT was popularized by this NYU psychologist whose recent activities include criticizing “safe spaces” on college campuses along with his co-author Greg Lukianoff in their 2018 book The Coddling of the American Mind.
ANSWER: Jonathan Haidt (“height”) [or Jonathan David Haidt]
[10] Identify this theory from social psychology, co-developed by Jesse Graham and Craig Joseph, which relies on axes like Care/Harm, Loyalty/Betrayal, and Purity/Degradation to explain outcomes such as political ideology.
ANSWER: moral foundations theory [or MFT]

340.
ID: 38833  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Religion | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet I (OSU A, Rice A, and Yale B) | Number: 8
BONUS: Answer the following about the role of heaven in Chinese religion, for 10 points each.
[10] Some Chinese Buddhists believe that this female bodhisattva of compassion, a manifestation of Avalokiteshvara (“UH-vuh-loh-kih-TAYSH-ver-uh”), sends departed souls to the heavenly Pure Land after death.
ANSWER: Guanyin [prompt on the Goddess of Mercy] &lt;Religion&gt;
[10] The Mandate of Heaven, by which the Emperor of China had a divine right to rule, was advocated by this religious philosopher, whose teachings were compiled in the Analects.
ANSWER: Confucius [or Kong Fuzi or Master Kong]
[10] In ancient inscriptions, the Chinese character for tian (“t’YEN”), or heaven, resembles this concept with a line added above it, while the modern form of tian overlaps two 2-stroke characters for this concept and the number two.
ANSWER: humanity [or man; or human being; or any answer indicating that the character looks like a person]

341.
ID: 38834  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet I (OSU A, Rice A, and Yale B) | Number: 9
BONUS: This document was the first of a series of three similar announcements, and it included a pledge that neither party would “seek hegemony” in the Pacific region. For 10 points each:
[10] The wording of the Shanghai Communiqué is an example of this two-word term coined by Henry Kissinger. It refers to using non-specific language to avoid forcing parties to confront disagreements about sensitive issues.
ANSWER: constructive ambiguity &lt;American History&gt;
[10] The Shanghai Communiqué was issued during this president’s historic diplomatic trip to China, during which he met with Mao and shook hands with Zhou Enlai (“joe un-lye”).
ANSWER: Richard Nixon [or Richard Milhous Nixon]
[10] Identify this landmark diplomatic communiqué issued in 1972 from the namesake city that began the process of normalizing US–Chinese relations.
ANSWER: the Shanghai Communiqué [or the Joint Communiqué of the United States of America and the People’s Republic of China]

342.
ID: 38835  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature World
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet I (OSU A, Rice A, and Yale B) | Number: 10
BONUS: After the performance of this play in Gikuyu at an open-air theater in 1977, its authors were imprisoned. For 10 points each:
[10] Ngũgĩ renounced this English first name, which he was given at birth. This is the first name of Ian Fleming’s most enduring character.
ANSWER: James &lt;World Literature&gt;
[10] One of the authors of I Will Marry When I Want, Ngũgĩ wa Thiong’o (“en-GO-gay wah thee-ON-go”), argued for the use of Gikuyu instead of English in an essay named for performing this process on the mind.
ANSWER: decolonizing [or decolonization; accept “Decolonising the Mind”]
[10] Name this play in which Kiguunda’s daughter Gathoni sings the title refrain.
ANSWER: I Will Marry When I Want [or Ngaahika Ndeenda]

343.
ID: 38836  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Mythology | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet I (OSU A, Rice A, and Yale B) | Number: 11
BONUS: Answer the following about everyone’s favorite horse-throwing deity, Susanoo, for 10 points each.
[10] This eighth daughter is saved from Orochi when Susanoo transforms her into a comb. This kami of rice later becomes Susanoo’s wife.
ANSWER: Kushinadahime [accept Inagamihime] &lt;Mythology&gt;
[10] After being banished from Heaven, Susanoo meets a couple who have sacrificed seven of their daughters to this eight-headed dragon, which Susanoo inebriates with sake (“SAH-kay”) and kills.
ANSWER: Yamata no Orochi
[10] While Susanoo’s siblings were born from Izanagi’s eyes, he was born when Izanagi cleaned this other part of his face. Tengu are Japanese demons with particularly long examples of this body part.
ANSWER: nose [or hana]

344.
ID: 38837  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet I (OSU A, Rice A, and Yale B) | Number: 12
BONUS: When performing a Z-transform, the result reduces to one of these summations on the unit circle. For 10 points each:
[10] Fourier series can be generalized to use other functions instead of sine and cosine. One example, sometimes called Schlömilch’s series, uses these functions that arise in the solutions to cylindrical PDEs. These functions are symbolized J-sub-n, while related functions “of the second kind” are symbolized Y-sub-n.
ANSWER: Bessel functions (of the first kind) [prompt on cylinder functions or cylindrical harmonics] &lt;Other Science (Math)&gt;
[10] Fourier series are typically defined as an offset plus an infinite sum over terms with different periods. Each term contains these two trigonometric functions multiplied by separate coefficients. Complex exponentials are equal to one of these oscillating functions plus i times the other.
ANSWER: sine AND cosine [or sin AND cos]
[10] Name these summations used to decompose periodic functions into terms that each oscillate at a single frequency.
ANSWER: Fourier series [accept Fourier expansion or Fourier decomposition; do not accept or prompt on “Fourier transform”]

345.
ID: 38838  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet I (OSU A, Rice A, and Yale B) | Number: 13
BONUS: This composer and violin virtuoso played Bach’s Double Violin Concerto with his student Yehudi Menuhin (“yeh-HOO-dee MEN-yoo-in”) and the New York Philharmonic at a 1950 concert that turned out to be his last. For 10 points each:
[10] Iancu (“YAHN-koo”) Dumitrescu, among other Romanian composers, adopted the spectral technique developed at this city’s IRCAM (“eer-cam”). Enescu studied at this city’s conservatory with Jules Massenet (“zhool mass-NAY”) and Gabriel Fauré (“for-AY”).
ANSWER: Paris &lt;Music&gt;
[10] Enamored with Enescu, this cellist called him “the greatest musical phenomenon since Mozart.” This Catalan cellist made a set of recordings from 1936 to 1939 that repopularized Bach’s cello suites.
ANSWER: Pablo Casals [or Pau Casals i Defilló]
[10] Name this composer of a String Octet in C major. His two rhapsodies, based on the music of his homeland’s taraf ensembles, quote folk songs like “I have a coin, and I want a drink” and “Aiee, I’m being devoured by a wolf!”
ANSWER: George Enescu [or George Enesco] (Those are his Romanian Rhapsodies.)

346.
ID: 38839  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet I (OSU A, Rice A, and Yale B) | Number: 14
BONUS: This poem begins with the lines “Just as my fingers on these keys make music, so the self-same sounds on my spirit make a music too.” For 10 points each:
[10] Another poem in Harmonium is named for one of these people “as the letter C,” and recounts a voyage undertaken by Crispin.
ANSWER: comedians [accept “The Comedian as the Letter C”] &lt;American Literature&gt;
[10] “Peter Quince at the Clavier” was first published in this poet’s collection Harmonium, which also contains “Sunday Morning” and “The Emperor of Ice-Cream.”
ANSWER: Wallace Stevens
[10] Name this poem that makes various allusions to the biblical story of Susanna and the Elders. It notes that “the body dies; the body’s beauty lives.”
ANSWER: “Peter Quince at the Clavier”

347.
ID: 38840  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet I (OSU A, Rice A, and Yale B) | Number: 15
BONUS: Answer the following about the last days of the “Hermit Kingdom,” for 10 points each.
[10] The Treaty of Ganghwa is an example of this type of asymmetrical treaty signed between Western and Asian powers in the 19th century. Treaties denoted by this term, such as the treaty of Nanking, usually granted rights such as extraterritoriality.
ANSWER: unequal treaties &lt;World History&gt;
[10] This 1876 treaty forcibly opened Korean ports to Japanese trade and ended Korea’s status as a tributary state under the Qing (“ching”) Dynasty. It was signed on an island that was earlier attacked by American ships in 1871.
ANSWER: Treaty of Ganghwa Island
[10] This country, ruled by the Joseon (“JO-sun”) Dynasty, was often called the “Hermit Kingdom.” It was annexed by Japan in 1910.
ANSWER: Korea

348.
ID: 38841  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet I (OSU A, Rice A, and Yale B) | Number: 16
BONUS: A tandem form of this technique, combined with electrospray ionization, is used to determine the order of amino acids in a protein. For 10 points each:
[10] In mass spec readouts, this is the name given to the peak usually marked M-plus, corresponding to the complete molecule. It’s usually the peak with the highest mass-to-charge ratio.
ANSWER: molecular ion peak &lt;Chemistry&gt;
[10] In this version of mass spectrometry, each ion of the same charge has the same kinetic energy, so the velocity of the ion through a drift region determines its mass. It’s commonly combined with MALDI when analyzing proteins.
ANSWER: TOF [or time-of-flight]
[10] Name this technique in which a sample is broken up into ionized fragments, and then the m-over-z value of each fragment is measured and plotted
ANSWER: mass spectrometry [or mass spectroscopy; or MS]

349.
ID: 38842  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet I (OSU A, Rice A, and Yale B) | Number: 17
BONUS: This person wore a Zara jacket emblazoned with the phrase “I really don’t care, do u” during a visit to a migrant detention center on the US–Mexico border. For 10 points each:
[10] Melania Trump and Kellyanne Conway were both nominated for Worst Supporting Actress Razzies for their appearances in this Michael Moore documentary about the 2016 presidential election.
ANSWER: Fahrenheit 11/9 [do not accept or prompt on “Fahrenheit 9/11”] &lt;Current Events&gt;
[10] In November 2018, Melania Trump issued an unusual public statement urging the firing of this Deputy National Security Advisor, who had previously feuded with James Mattis while on Trump’s presidential transition team.
ANSWER: Mira Ricardel [or Mira Radielovic Ricardel; or Mira Baratta]
[10] Name this woman who promotes the “Be Best” campaign, which vaguely opposes cyberbullying and opioid use, in her role as First Lady.
ANSWER: Melania Trump [accept Melanija Knavs or Melania Knauss; prompt on Trump]

350.
ID: 38843  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet I (OSU A, Rice A, and Yale B) | Number: 18
BONUS: The Laurel and Hardy film <em>Our Relations</em> is based on a story in which this author’s recurring characters Ginger Dick and Peter Russet pawn a set of clothes only to discover that all their money was hidden inside them. For 10 points each:
[10] Ginger Dick and Peter Russet share this profession with a Coleridge character who is made to wear an albatross around his neck after shooting it with a crossbow.
ANSWER: sailor [or mariner] &lt;British Literature&gt;
[10] Several of Jacobs’s lighter stories were published in The Idler, which was co-edited by Robert Barr and this Irish author of the humorous travelogue Three Men in a Boat.
ANSWER: Jerome K. Jerome [or Jerome Klapka Jerome]
[10] Name this author of “The Money Box.” He wrote a story in which the Whites use the monkey’s paw against the advice of its previous owner Sergeant-Major Morris, leading to the death of their son Herbert.
ANSWER: W. W. Jacobs [or William Wymark Jacobs]

351.
ID: 38844  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History Classical
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet I (OSU A, Rice A, and Yale B) | Number: 19
BONUS: Answer the following about Roman imperial dynasties, for 10 points each.
[10] During the Crisis of the Third Century, emperors who seized power through the military are commonly known as this kind of emperor. Gordian, Pupienus, and Maximinus Thrax were examples of this kind of emperor.
ANSWER: barracks emperors &lt;Ancient History&gt;
[10] Vespasian founded this dynasty after the chaos caused by the death of Nero. Vespasian’s sons, Titus and Domitian, were also part of this dynasty.
ANSWER: Flavian Dynasty
[10] The first dynasty of imperial Rome ended with the death of this emperor, who reputedly “fiddled while Rome burned.”
ANSWER: Nero

352.
ID: 38845  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet I (OSU A, Rice A, and Yale B) | Number: 20
BONUS: In 1789, this artist produced an alternate version of a painting of herself with her daughter in which she wears a Greek dress, potentially a reference to a notorious Greece-themed dinner party she had hosted the previous year. For 10 points each:
[10] In a scene from Vigée Le Brun’s memoirs, Marie Antoinette reaches down to retrieve the pregnant artist’s paintbrushes, echoing a story in which Emperor Charles V picked up this Renaissance artist’s brush while sitting for one of this Italian artist’s many portraits of him.
ANSWER: Titian [or Tiziano Vecelli] &lt;Painting&gt;
[10] Vigée Le Brun painted more than thirty portraits of this French queen and her family, including a controversial one in which she appears in a simple white muslin (“MUZZ-lin”) dress. Jacques-Louis David (“dah-VEED”) produced an ink drawing of this queen on her way to the guillotine in 1793.
ANSWER: Marie Antoinette [prompt on partial answer]
[10] Name this artist of Maternal Tenderness, who also produced a well-known portrait of her good friend, the artist Hubert Robert (“oo-BAIR ro-BAIR”).
ANSWER: Élisabeth Vigée Le Brun (“vee-JAY luh BRUN”) [or Élisabeth Louise Vigée]

353.
ID: 38846  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet I (OSU A, Rice A, and Yale B) | Number: 21
BONUS: The Patriot War was an unsuccessful attempt to seize this territory in 1812. For 10 points each:
[10] The Treaty of Payne’s Landing sparked this Seminole leader’s resistance. This leader was captured in 1837 by Thomas Jesup, under a white flag of truce.
ANSWER: Osceola (“OSS-ee-OH-luh”) [accept Billy Powell] &lt;American History&gt;
[10] This 1832 treaty called for the Seminoles to move west out of Florida. The Seminoles’ refusal to relocate after this treaty was signed led to the Second Seminole War.
ANSWER: Treaty of Payne’s Landing [accept Treaty of Fort Gibson]
[10] Name this state that was ceded to the United States from Spain after the signing of the Adams–Onís (“oh-NEESE”) Treaty of 1819. This state was home to the Seminole people.
ANSWER: Florida

354.
ID: 38847  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Trash | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet J (Texas A, Oxford B, UIUC C, and Maryland B) | Number: 1
BONUS: Robert Pierce played a drummer named Bingo on this show, whose opening credits include the two title characters singing “You Look at Me.” For 10 points each:
[10] This actor played Chachi in both Joanie Loves Chachi and Happy Days. He later starred in Charles in Charge.
ANSWER: Scott Baio [or Scott Vincent James Baio] &lt;Trash&gt;
[10] Joanie Loves Chachi was a spinoff of this nostalgic show that originally focused on Ron Howard’s character Richie Cunningham before reorienting itself around the more popular Fonzie.
ANSWER: Happy Days
[10] Name this short-lived sitcom in which Erin Moran, Al Molinaro, and others reprised their roles from a more popular show set in Milwaukee.
ANSWER: Joanie Loves Chachi

355.
ID: 38848  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature World
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet J (Texas A, Oxford B, UIUC C, and Maryland B) | Number: 2
BONUS: In Jhumpa Lahiri’s “The Third and Final Continent,” one of these people named Mrs. Croft repeatedly makes the narrator say “splendid” about the fact that the Americans have put a flag on the moon. For 10 points each:
[10] This woman, whose first name is never given, is the landlady of 221B Baker Street, where Sherlock Holmes lives.
ANSWER: Mrs. Hudson &lt;Other Literature&gt;
[10] In Soyinka’s poem, that all-caps question is prompted by the speaker saying he is from this continent, where Soyinka was born.
ANSWER: Africa
[10] Name this type of person. The speaker of Wole Soyinka’s (“WALL-ay SHOW-ying-ka’s”) poem “Telephone Conversation” tells one of these people that he “hates a wasted journey,” before she asks him “Are you dark? or very light?” in all caps.
ANSWER: landlady [accept landlord or letter or renter]

356.
ID: 38849  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet J (Texas A, Oxford B, UIUC C, and Maryland B) | Number: 3
BONUS: A lensless version of these devices uses evanescent fields, though they normally use a single highly focused laser beam. For 10 points each:
[10] This type of solid-state laser is commonly used for optical tweezers and other dipole force traps. These lasers optically pumped a namesake crystal to produce a near-infrared beam with a wavelength of 1064 nanometers.
ANSWER: Nd:YAG (“N-D-yag”) laser [or neodymium-doped yttrium aluminum garnet laser] &lt;Physics&gt;
[10] The optical dipole force on a small particle can be approximated using a formula from this quasi-static scattering theory. This type of scattering is often used to explain the sky’s blue color.
ANSWER: Rayleigh (“RAY-lee”) scattering
[10] Name these devices that produce tiny forces that can be used to move single cells and trap particles as small as atoms. Arthur Ashkin won half of the 2018 Nobel Prize in Physics for developing these devices.
ANSWER: optical tweezers [or single-beam gradient force traps; prompt on optical dipole trap; do not accept or prompt on “magneto-optical trap”]

357.
ID: 38850  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Mythology | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet J (Texas A, Oxford B, UIUC C, and Maryland B) | Number: 4
BONUS: Answer the following about the Chinese Goddess of the Moon, Chang’e (“chong-UH”), for 10 points each.
[10] Another companion to Chang’e is this woodcutter who was banished to the moon as punishment for his laziness and tasked with cutting down a laurel tree only to have it regrow every time he chopped it.
ANSWER: Wu Gang (“woo gong”) [or Wu Kang or Wu Zhi; prompt on Wu] &lt;Mythology&gt;
[10] Chang’e is accompanied by one of these animals that is said to constantly pound the contents of a pestle and mortar together. A common world myth motif is that the feet of these long-eared animals bring good luck.
ANSWER: rabbit [accept hare]
[10] Some stories say that after shooting down nine suns, this husband of Chang’e built a palace on the tenth, which he left in the sky.
ANSWER: Houyi (“ho-YEE”) [or Shen Yi]

358.
ID: 38851  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet J (Texas A, Oxford B, UIUC C, and Maryland B) | Number: 5
BONUS: These people were to be summarily executed for enforcing “Judeo-Bolshevik ideology” in an order signed shortly before the commencement of Operation Barbarossa. For 10 points each:
[10] The capture of this city was part of Operation Edelweiss. This city now called Volgograd was the site of a battle that was the turning point of the Eastern Front of World War II and ended in the capture of German Field Marshal Friedrich Paulus.
ANSWER: Stalingrad &lt;European History&gt;
[10] Twenty-six commissars were shot outside this city after a failed 1918 commune in it. This Caucasian city’s oil fields were the target of Operation Edelweiss.
ANSWER: Baku [or Bakı; accept 26 Baku Commissars]
[10] Name this position in the Soviet military whose holders were attached to a unit to instill Communist principles in the soldiers.
ANSWER: commissars [accept Commissar Order]

359.
ID: 38852  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet J (Texas A, Oxford B, UIUC C, and Maryland B) | Number: 6
BONUS: Answer the following about techniques in cell culture, for 10 points each.
[10] The 3T3 cell line is essentially the analogue of HeLa cells for mouse research. 3T3 cells are derived from these cells, whose “myo” variety has smooth muscle characteristics and contracts the edges of wounds.
ANSWER: myofibroblasts &lt;Biology&gt;
[10] Perhaps the best-known human cell line are HeLa (“HEE-luh”) cells, which were taken from a patient with cancer of this organ. HPV causes cancer of this female reproductive organ that connects the vagina to the uterus.
ANSWER: cervix [or cervical cancer]
[10] When splitting cells for culture, it is necessary to add a mixture containing this proteolytic enzyme and EDTA to detach adherent cells. This pancreatic serine protease cleaves after lysine and arginine residues.
ANSWER: trypsin

360.
ID: 38853  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Philosophy | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet J (Texas A, Oxford B, UIUC C, and Maryland B) | Number: 7
BONUS: This thinker proposed a hierarchical binary between “natural” and “artificial” in a work that attempts to define the qualities of “progressive universal poetry.” For 10 points each:
[10] Schlegel adopted from earlier thinkers this German term, which refers to self-cultivation and realization of oneself in society. This term helps to name a genre of books pioneered by a book in which the main character commits himself to the Tower Society.
ANSWER: bildung [accept bildungsroman] (The book is Goethe’s Wilhelm Meister’s Apprenticeship.) &lt;Philosophy&gt;
[10] The Schlegel brothers were key figures in this German intellectual movement that gained prominence at the turn of the 19th century, whose members argued that aesthetics and feeling were a better way to truth than reason.
ANSWER: Romanticism [accept Jena Romanticism and Frühromantik]
[10] Name this German author of the Athenaeum Fragments. He advocated a particular school of aesthetic thought along with his brother, August Wilhelm.
ANSWER: Friedrich Schlegel (“SHLAY-gull”) [or Karl Wilhelm Friedrich von Schlegel]

361.
ID: 38854  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet J (Texas A, Oxford B, UIUC C, and Maryland B) | Number: 8
BONUS: In a novel by this author, an heiress ends up supporting herself by writing erotic fiction for William Lazenby’s magazine <em>The Pearl</em>. For 10 points each:
[10] A classic lesbian novel by Radclyffe Hall is named after this feeling. In a short story named after this feeling, a boy named Smith takes up running while confined in a borstal, a type of youth detention center.
ANSWER: loneliness [accept The Well of Loneliness or “The Loneliness of the Long-Distance Runner”] &lt;British Literature&gt;
[10] Fingersmith and Tipping the Velvet are among several novels by Sarah Waters with lesbian themes set in this period in British history, which lasted from 1837 to 1901.
ANSWER: Victorian era
[10] Name this author who wrote about Sue Trinder being tasked with seducing Maud Lilly in the novel Fingersmith. The title of her novel Tipping the Velvet is also a sexual double entendre.
ANSWER: Sarah Waters

362.
ID: 38855  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet J (Texas A, Oxford B, UIUC C, and Maryland B) | Number: 9
BONUS: Answer the following about Carrie Nation, for 10 points each.
[10] Carrie approved of this event, which she saw as divine retribution for its target’s secret drinking. It was carried out by an anarchist at the 1901 Pan-American Exposition in Buffalo.
ANSWER: assassination of William McKinley [or equivalents, such as shooting of McKinley] &lt;American History&gt;
[10] Carrie’s first saloon attack was in this Kansas town. She was told to go to this city, where she destroyed three saloons, in a vision.
ANSWER: Kiowa (“KYE-oh-wuh”), Kansas
[10] Carrie Nation was a hatchet-wielding activist for this movement, which succeeded in its cause with the passage of the Eighteenth Amendment.
ANSWER: temperance [accept prohibition; accept banning alcohol]

363.
ID: 38856  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Other
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet J (Texas A, Oxford B, UIUC C, and Maryland B) | Number: 10
BONUS: The western form of these phenomena are “intensified” by surface wind and gravity, resulting in warm water being carried toward the poles. For 10 points each:
[10] Upwelling of nutrient water is reduced in these events, which are the warm phase of the Southern Oscillation. They happen in a cycle with a cool counterpart, La Niña (“NEEN-ya”).
ANSWER: El Niño (“NEEN-yo”) [or El Niño–Southern Oscillation; or ENSO] &lt;Other Science (Earth Science)&gt;
[10] In contrast to their western counterparts, eastern boundary currents carry nutrient-rich water due to this phenomenon that brings dense, cool water to the ocean’s surface.
ANSWER: coastal upwelling
[10] Name these currents that surround oceanic gyres.
ANSWER: boundary currents

364.
ID: 38857  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet J (Texas A, Oxford B, UIUC C, and Maryland B) | Number: 11
BONUS: The Arrhenius equation predicts an exponential dependence for the constant used to determine this quantity on activation energy over temperature. For 10 points each:
[10] This term refers to the pre-steady-state phase of an enzyme-catalyzed reaction, where product is formed more quickly than in steady state. It corresponds to a single turnover cycle for the enzyme.
ANSWER: burst kinetics [or burst phase] &lt;Chemistry&gt;
[10] The Michaelis–Menten equation, which predicts the rate of enzyme-catalyzed reactions, can be derived using this assumption, that the concentration of the ES complex is constant during product formation.
ANSWER: quasi-steady-state approximation [or QSSA; or Briggs–Haldane approximation]
[10] Name this quantity that is proportional to a product of powers of reactant concentration. It is equal to the number of molecules of product made per unit time, normalized by the product’s stoichiometric coefficient.
ANSWER: reaction rate

365.
ID: 38858  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet J (Texas A, Oxford B, UIUC C, and Maryland B) | Number: 12
BONUS: In this novel, Gibbs marvels that Bast can compose music when there is “so God damned much entropy going on” in his 96th Street apartment. For 10 points each:
[10] The computer Multivac is asked “How can the net amount of entropy of the universe be massively decreased?” in the science fiction story “The Last Question,” written by this author of the Foundation series.
ANSWER: Isaac Asimov &lt;American Literature&gt;
[10] William Gaddis’s concern with entropy in J R is reminiscent of this other postmodernist’s story “Entropy.” The statistician Roger Mexico appears in one of this author’s novels.
ANSWER: Thomas Pynchon [or Thomas Ruggles Pynchon Jr.]
[10] Name this novel written almost entirely in dialogue. This novel’s sixth-grade title character buys millions of surplus picnic forks from the Air Force and sells them to the Army.
ANSWER: J R

366.
ID: 38859  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet J (Texas A, Oxford B, UIUC C, and Maryland B) | Number: 13
BONUS: This composer wrote music for the “Pontifical Anthem and March,” the national anthem of the Holy See and the Vatican City State. For 10 points each:
[10] During Gounod’s funeral service at the Church of the Madeleine, this French composer of Danse Macabre (“donse muh-COB”) and The Carnival of the Animals played the organ as Gabriel Fauré (“for-AY”) conducted.
ANSWER: Camille Saint-Saëns (“kuh-MEE san-SAWNS”) &lt;Music&gt;
[10] Gounod helped this composer become the organist of the Saint-Sulpice (“san-sull-PEESE”) church, a position he held for the next 64 years. The fifth movement of his fifth organ symphony is a Toccata that is often performed on its own as recessional music.
ANSWER: Charles-Marie Widor (“vee-DOR”) [or Charles-Marie Jean Albert Widor]
[10] Name this French composer who used the first C major prelude from Bach’s The Well-Tempered Clavier as the accompaniment for his setting of the Ave Maria. He wrote the five-act opera Faust.
ANSWER: Charles Gounod (“goo-NOH”) [or Charles-François Gounod]

367.
ID: 38860  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet J (Texas A, Oxford B, UIUC C, and Maryland B) | Number: 14
BONUS: This man shot at Alejandrina Cox after mistaking her for a man, leading to his resignation. For 10 points each:
[10] Prats put down a “putsch” named for one of these objects. One of these objects broke the front gate into the presidential palace during the Fall of Saigon.
ANSWER: tanks [accept Tank Putsch or Tanquetazo] &lt;World History&gt;
[10] Prats was a general in this country, which was ruled by Salvador Allende (“ah-YEN-day”) before Augusto Pinochet (“PEE-no-shay”) took power in a 1973 coup.
ANSWER: Chile [or Republic of Chile; or República de Chile]
[10] Name this general who was later assassinated along with his wife Sofia by a car bomb in Buenos Aires.
ANSWER: Carlos Prats [or Carlos Prats González]

368.
ID: 38861  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Religion | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet J (Texas A, Oxford B, UIUC C, and Maryland B) | Number: 15
BONUS: The first verse of this work indicates that it was written with the aid of “Sosthenes our brother.” For 10 points each:
[10] Anabaptists cite a passage from the eleventh chapter of 1 Corinthians as evidence that women should always perform this practice.
ANSWER: covering the head [accept equivalents] &lt;Religion&gt;
[10] The original King James Bible notably uses this word in place of “love” throughout 1 Corinthians 13. A verse from 1 Timothy explains that this concept will “cover the multitude of sins.”
ANSWER: charity [or caritas]
[10] Name this Biblical epistle that follows Romans and is addressed to Christians in Greece. Its thirteenth chapter concludes with a message to abide in “faith, hope, and love,” noting that love is the greatest of the three.
ANSWER: First Epistle to the Corinthians [or 1 Corinthians; prompt on Corinthians]

369.
ID: 38862  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet J (Texas A, Oxford B, UIUC C, and Maryland B) | Number: 16
BONUS: The head of this painting’s central figure is replaced with that of an ape and sits next to text reading “Less than 5% of the artists are women, but 85% of the nudes are female” in a 1989 poster. For 10 points each:
[10] A major Guerrilla Girls retrospective was exhibited in 2015 at the Matadero, a former slaughterhouse-turned-art space in this city. Other contemporary art museums in this city include the Reina Sofia Museum.
ANSWER: Madrid &lt;Painting&gt;
[10] A 2018 artwork by the Guerrilla Girls offers three potential wall labels for this artist’s 2006 portrait of Bill Clinton, one of which satirically references the sexual harassment accusations against this pioneering photorealist by noting that he “has had a few disgruntled employees.”
ANSWER: Chuck Close [or Charles Thomas Close]
[10] Name this 1814 painting whose central figure, who holds a peacock feather fan, was repurposed for that Guerrilla Girls poster, Do women have to be naked to get into the Met. Museum?
ANSWER: Grande Odalisque (by Jean Auguste Dominique Ingres)

370.
ID: 38863  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature European
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet J (Texas A, Oxford B, UIUC C, and Maryland B) | Number: 17
BONUS: This author wrote a philosophical dialogue in which an Icelander meets a giant personification of Nature in the heart of Africa. For 10 points each:
[10] Leopardi wrote in this language, in which the first sonnets were written.
ANSWER: Italian [or Italiano] &lt;European Literature&gt;
[10] A Leopardi poem contrasts the “wretched” and “wearisome” life of a shepherd with the constancy of this object. A poem by Sir Philip Sidney describes the “sad steps” with which this object “climb’st the skies.”
ANSWER: the Moon [accept “To the Moon” or “Alla Luna”]
[10] Name this 19th-century Romantic poet. The speaker of one of his poems remembers a time “when beauty so bewildering, shone” in the title character’s “laughing, glancing eyes.”
ANSWER: Giacomo Leopardi [or Giacomo Taldegardo Francesco di Sales Saverio Pietro Leopardi]

371.
ID: 38864  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet J (Texas A, Oxford B, UIUC C, and Maryland B) | Number: 18
BONUS: This classification was inspired by Joe Henrich’s work with the ultimatum game among various non-Western cultures. For 10 points each:
[10] Tyler Watts led a 2018 replication study that found much weaker correlations between delay times and future achievement than an original experiment by Walter Mischel, in which kids could be patient and receive two of these items rather than just one.
ANSWER: marshmallows &lt;Social Science&gt;
[10] Despite the Many Labs 2 project’s usage of non-WEIRD participants while performing this task of re-confirming results of prior psychological experiments, they have had low rates of success.
ANSWER: replication [accept word forms; or reproduction; accept replication crisis or reproducibility crisis]
[10] Give this acronym for a set of five traits that titles a paper by Henrich et al. which claims that high usage of participants described by this word skewed experimental outcomes.
ANSWER: WEIRD people [or Western, Educated, Industrialized, Rich, and Democratic people; accept “The weirdest people in the world?”]

372.
ID: 38865  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet J (Texas A, Oxford B, UIUC C, and Maryland B) | Number: 19
BONUS: The album that popularized this genre worldwide includes the tracks “Doralice” (“do-ra-LEE-see”) and “Vivo Sonhando” (“VEE-voo soon-YAHN-doo”). For 10 points each:
[10] This was the first bossa nova song ever recorded, done by Elizete Cardoso (“eh-lee-ZETCH car-DOH-zoo”) in 1957. This Jobim song with a hard-to-translate word in its title was made popular by Gilberto in a namesake album, and it has also been recorded under the English title “No More Blues.”
ANSWER: “Chega de Saudade” (“SHAY-guh jee sao-DAH-jee”) &lt;Other Arts&gt;
[10] João Gilberto collaborated with Stan Getz, who primarily played this instrument, to create Getz/Gilberto. Other players of this instrument include a non-pianist also named Bill Evans and John Coltrane.
ANSWER: saxophone [accept tenor saxophone or alto saxophone]
[10] Name this genre that was mixed with jazz on that album, Getz/Gilberto (“GETZ zheel-BAIR-too”), which also includes the songs “Corcovado” by João Gilberto (“zh’wow zheel-BAIR-too”) and “The Girl from Ipanema” by Antônio Carlos Jobim (“zho-BEEM”).
ANSWER: bossa nova

373.
ID: 38866  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet J (Texas A, Oxford B, UIUC C, and Maryland B) | Number: 20
BONUS: Answer the following about the interesting history of Halley’s Comet, for 10 points each.
[10] Halley’s Comet supposedly became the first astronomical body to be excommunicated after Callixtus III condemned it for being a bad omen during a siege of this city. In 1999, a Chinese embassy in this city was accidentally bombed by the United States.
ANSWER: Belgrade [or Beograd] &lt;European History&gt;
[10] Halley’s Comet appeared in 1066, shortly before this battle was fought. The comet is featured prominently in the Bayeux Tapestry, which tells the story of this battle.
ANSWER: Battle of Hastings
[10] Coins of this kingdom depict the passage of Halley’s Comet in 87 BC. This kingdom’s capital Tigranocerta was sacked in 69 BC by Lucius Licinius Lucullus.
ANSWER: Armenia [or Kingdom of Greater Armenia; or Mets Hayk; accept Artaxiad Kingdom]

374.
ID: 38867  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet J (Texas A, Oxford B, UIUC C, and Maryland B) | Number: 21
BONUS: Kirkwood and Kowald proposed the network theory of this phenomenon, which attributes it to multiple processes. For 10 points each:
[10] The mutation accumulation theory of aging was proposed by this British biologist who discovered acquired immune tolerance with Mac Burnet and did pioneering research on organ transplantation.
ANSWER: Peter Medawar [or Sir Peter Brian Medawar] &lt;Biology&gt;
[10] Because telomeres shorten with each cell division, cells can divide a finite number of times. This is the name given to the number of divisions a given cell can undergo in vitro.
ANSWER: Hayflick limit
[10] Name this phenomenon in which organisms deteriorate over time.
ANSWER: biological aging [or senescence]

375.
ID: 38868  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet K (Northwestern A, Oregon, Maryland A, and Auburn A) | Number: 1
BONUS: According to legend, Alexander Glazunov managed to reconstruct this opera’s overture and Act III strictly from memory after its composer’s death, and Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov did the rest. For 10 points each:
[10] Borodin adapted an abandoned chorus from Prince Igor into the opening of this piece. In that opening, each measure alternates between a held B-natural in the strings and horns, followed by a series of unison eighth notes in the strings.
ANSWER: Symphony No. 2 in B minor [prompt on Borodin 2] &lt;Music&gt;
[10] Prince Igor was left unfinished by this member of the Five who also composed In the Steppes of Central Asia.
ANSWER: Alexander Borodin [or Alexander Porfiryevich Borodin]
[10] Name this unfinished opera. In its section the “Polovetsian Dances,” slaves perform a series of exotic dances for the title character.
ANSWER: Prince Igor

376.
ID: 38869  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Trash | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet K (Northwestern A, Oregon, Maryland A, and Auburn A) | Number: 2
BONUS: Answer the following about WWE events in Saudi Arabia, for 10 points each.
[10] At Crown Jewel, this wrestler nicknamed “The Beast Incarnate” defeated Braun Strowman to win his second WWE Universal Championship. During his six-year MMA career, he won two heavyweight titles before losing to Cain Velasquez at UFC 121.
ANSWER: Brock Lesnar [or Brock Edward Lesnar] &lt;Trash&gt;
[10] WWE was heavily pressured to cancel its second Saudi pay-per-view, Crown Jewel, after the murder of this journalist by agents of the Saudi government.
ANSWER: Jamal Khashoggi (“ka-SHOOK-chee”) [or Jamal Ahmad Khashoggi]
[10] WWE’s first Saudi Arabia event, on April 27th, 2018, was titled for the “Greatest” version of this type of match. This match format generally features a roster of 30 wrestlers entering the ring at timed intervals; wrestlers are eliminated by having both feet touch the floor after going over the top rope.
ANSWER: Royal Rumble [or Greatest Royal Rumble; prompt on battle royale]

377.
ID: 38870  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Mythology | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet K (Northwestern A, Oregon, Maryland A, and Auburn A) | Number: 3
BONUS: This event was prophesied (“PROFF-uh-sighed”) by the sour face of the wedding deity Hymen, and Ovid’s account attributes this event’s cause to a night of dancing with the naiads. For 10 points each:
[10] Ovid’s account of the Orpheus myth includes him wandering around and singing about this group of women from Cyprus. They become the world’s first prostitutes as punishment for refusal to worship Venus.
ANSWER: Propoetides &lt;Mythology&gt;
[10] Eurydice’s death by snakebite forces this man, her husband, to rescue her from the underworld. He convinces Pluto with his musical skill, but Eurydice vanishes when he looks back after returning to the world of the living.
ANSWER: Orpheus
[10] Name this tragic event. In one of the final sections of Virgil’s Georgics, this event takes place as a result of Aristaeus, the keeper of the bees, giving chase to a certain woman.
ANSWER: the death of Eurydice

378.
ID: 38871  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature European
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet K (Northwestern A, Oregon, Maryland A, and Auburn A) | Number: 4
BONUS: A late 19th-century genre named for its opposition to this ideology is exemplified by Nikolai Leskov’s <em>No Way Out</em>. For 10 points each:
[10] At the end of Fathers and Sons, Bazarov dies of blood poisoning after cutting himself while distractedly performing this type of procedure.
ANSWER: autopsy &lt;European Literature&gt;
[10] The aforementioned nihilist, Bazarov, is one of the main characters of this novel by Ivan Turgenev (“tur-GAIN-yeff”).
ANSWER: Fathers and Sons [or Ottsy i deti]
[10] Name this ideology held by a character who visits the estate of his college friend Arkady Kirsanov. That character with this ideology duels Pavel, who has a disdain for this ideology.
ANSWER: nihilism [or nihilist]

379.
ID: 38872  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet K (Northwestern A, Oregon, Maryland A, and Auburn A) | Number: 5
BONUS: Answer some questions about a building-shaped 20-carbon molecule, pagodane (“puh-GO-dane”), for 10 points each.
[10] Pagodane can be isomerized to dodecahedrane, which like buckminsterfullerene belongs to this point group of order 120.
ANSWER: Ih (“I-H”) [or I-sub-H] &lt;Chemistry&gt;
[10] A di-cation derivative of pagodane was the first molecule to demonstrate the sigma-bis-homo version of this phenomenon. Benzene exhibits this phenomenon, which occurs in planar molecules that have 4n-plus-2 pi electrons.
ANSWER: aromaticity [or aromatic]
[10] All of the faces of pagodane have the same shape as this cycloalkane. This cycloalkane has envelope and twist conformers.
ANSWER: cyclopentane

380.
ID: 38873  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet K (Northwestern A, Oregon, Maryland A, and Auburn A) | Number: 6
BONUS: This event is known by Koreans as Sa-I-Gu, or 4-2-9, referencing the date it started. For 10 points each:
[10] This mayor of Los Angeles at the time called for peace despite expressing his anger at the acquittal of Rodney King’s attackers.
ANSWER: Tom Bradley &lt;American History&gt;
[10] Daryl Gates retired as the chief of this city’s police department following the Rodney King riots, which occurred in this city.
ANSWER: Los Angeles [or L.A.]
[10] Name this event in which Koreans defended their stores with firearms against mobs of looters, who had earlier beaten truck driver Reginald Denny senseless.
ANSWER: Rodney King riots [accept, but DO NOT REVEAL, 1992 Los Angeles riots or 1992 L.A. riots]

381.
ID: 38874  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Philosophy | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet K (Northwestern A, Oregon, Maryland A, and Auburn A) | Number: 7
BONUS: A work by this philosopher asks the reader to imagine a group of fellow bus passengers eating a picnic lunch consisting of “live insects, fish heads, and pickled sex organs of lamb, veal, and pork,” an unpleasant but “harmless” experience. For 10 points each:
[10] Feinberg argues for the relationship between “offensiveness” and this other concept. An 1890 article by Samuel Warren and Louis Brandeis claimed that the “right to” this concept equaled the “right to be let alone.”
ANSWER: privacy [or “The Right to Privacy”] &lt;Philosophy&gt;
[10] The Moral Limits of the Criminal Law critiques this philosopher’s claim that the state should only criminalize conduct harmful to others, a “harm principle” he outlined in his work On Liberty.
ANSWER: John Stuart Mill
[10] Name this American philosopher who developed the aforementioned “Ride on the Bus” thought experiment in his book The Moral Limits of the Criminal Law.
ANSWER: Joel Feinberg

382.
ID: 38875  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet K (Northwestern A, Oregon, Maryland A, and Auburn A) | Number: 8
BONUS: A book by this author includes the autobiographical essay “Tristes Tropiques,” which discusses the experience of “twinning” with a loved one referred to only as SL. For 10 points each:
[10] An essay from White Girls about Eminem shares its title with this novel in which Jack Gladney is spooked by the Airborne Toxic Event.
ANSWER: White Noise &lt;Other Literature&gt;
[10] White Girls also includes a portrait of André Leon Talley, the former editor-at-large of this fashion magazine currently helmed by Anna Wintour (“winter”).
ANSWER: Vogue
[10] Name this New Yorker theater critic who included people like Malcolm X’s mother in the title category of his book White Girls. He won the 2017 Pulitzer Prize for Criticism.
ANSWER: Hilton Als

383.
ID: 38876  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet K (Northwestern A, Oregon, Maryland A, and Auburn A) | Number: 9
BONUS: This animal is an important indicator for the study of ocean acidification, and their species <em>Strongylocentrotus purpuratus</em> is used as a model organism to study development. For 10 points each:
[10] Gastrulation in sea urchins begins with ingression of primary mesenchymal (“meh-ZANK-uh-mull”) cells, followed by the formation of this primitive gut tube. The blastopore is the opening of this tube.
ANSWER: archenteron &lt;Biology&gt;
[10] Tim Hunt used sea urchins to study the cell cycle, leading to the discovery of these cell cycle regulatory proteins. They bind to and activate their namesake “dependent kinases” to advance from one stage to another.
ANSWER: cyclins
[10] Identify these creatures from the order Echinoidea, a spiky, slow-moving organism that is common prey for sea otters. These organisms move through four-arm and eight-arm larva stages during development.
ANSWER: sea urchins

384.
ID: 38877  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet K (Northwestern A, Oregon, Maryland A, and Auburn A) | Number: 10
BONUS: The Plastic People of the Universe was a protest band formed in this country. For 10 points each:
[10] Jan Palach (“yahn PAH-lahkh”) performed this action in January 1969 to protest the Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia. Malcolm Browne took a photograph of another person who performed this action.
ANSWER: self-immolation [accept burning oneself alive or setting oneself on fire or other clear equivalents] &lt;European History&gt;
[10] The Two Thousand Words were published in this 1968 period of liberalization in Czechoslovakia. It was ended when Soviet troops invaded in August 1968.
ANSWER: Prague Spring
[10] Name this country whose government’s human rights abuses were criticized in Charter 77. Earlier, a manifesto called The Two Thousand Words called for more openness in its government.
ANSWER: Czechoslovakia [do not accept or prompt on “Czech Republic” or “Slovakia”]

385.
ID: 38878  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet K (Northwestern A, Oregon, Maryland A, and Auburn A) | Number: 11
BONUS: This quantity can be calculated by taking the trace of the density operator times an observable. For 10 points each:
[10] Hugh Everett proposed an observer-independent explanation for wavefunction collapse based on this phenomenon, in which a quantum system becomes entangled with many degrees of freedom in its environment. This phenomenon results in non-unitary evolution and causes errors in quantum computing.
ANSWER: decoherence [or decoherent] &lt;Physics&gt;
[10] This object is sometimes said to collapse to one part of a superposition upon measurement. This mathematical object specifies the state of a quantum system with respect to the position eigenbasis, and its square norm is probability density.
ANSWER: wave function [or position-space wave function]
[10] Name this quantity that takes into account quantum uncertainty by including all possible measurement results weighted by probability.
ANSWER: expectation value [or expectation or EV; prompt on answers indicating the average value of an observable]

386.
ID: 38879  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Religion | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet K (Northwestern A, Oregon, Maryland A, and Auburn A) | Number: 12
BONUS: The first of these buildings was located in Ashgabat before it was secularized by the Soviets and destroyed in an earthquake. For 10 points each:
[10] North America’s two Baha’i temples are located in the US and this other country, where it has become a significant minority religion among the native Ngäbe (“in-GAW-bay”) people.
ANSWER: Panama [or Republic of Panama; or República de Panamá] &lt;Religion&gt;
[10] The construction of future Baha’i temples is overseen by the Universal House of Justice, a central governing body that is located on the slopes of Mount Carmel (“kar-MELL”) in this country, the only Jewish-majority nation in the world.
ANSWER: Israel [or State of Israel; or Medinat Yisrael]
[10] Name these religious buildings that often feature large central domes and admit members of all faiths. One of these buildings in Delhi is named after its resemblance to a lotus flower.
ANSWER: Baha’i temples [or Baha’i Houses of Worship; prompt on temples]

387.
ID: 38880  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet K (Northwestern A, Oregon, Maryland A, and Auburn A) | Number: 13
BONUS: Answer the following about Aldous Huxley’s relationship with drugs, for 10 points each.
[10] Huxley wrote about drugs as an avenue of escape in the epilogue to this non-fiction novel about Urbain Grandier, who was accused of being responsible for the demonic possession of a group of Ursuline nuns.
ANSWER: The Devils of Loudun &lt;British Literature&gt;
[10] Huxley’s description of a mescaline trip makes up the bulk of his book The Doors of Perception, which takes its title from this author’s The Marriage of Heaven and Hell.
ANSWER: William Blake
[10] In Brave New World, this population-placating drug is described as having “all the advantages of Christianity and alcohol and none of their defects.”
ANSWER: soma

388.
ID: 38881  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet K (Northwestern A, Oregon, Maryland A, and Auburn A) | Number: 14
BONUS: The oldest known name for this country is Wo, which translates to “dwarf.” For 10 points each:
[10] This period of Japanese history following the Yayoi period is named after giant keyhole-shaped burial mounds.
ANSWER: Kofun period &lt;World History&gt;
[10] Japan is first mentioned in historical documents from this dynasty, which was interrupted by the rule of Wang Mang’s (“wong mong’s”) Xin (“shin”) Dynasty. China’s majority ethnic group is named after this dynasty.
ANSWER: Han Dynasty
[10] Name this country whose prehistoric periods include the Jomon and Yayoi periods.
ANSWER: Japan [or Nihon or Nippon]

389.
ID: 38882  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Audiovisual
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet K (Northwestern A, Oregon, Maryland A, and Auburn A) | Number: 15
BONUS: Luciano Berio (“loo-CHAH-no BARY-oh”) composed a new ending for this opera in 2002, attempting to correct the dramaturgical flaws of the standard ending written by Franco Alfano. For 10 points each:
[10] This is the answer to Turandot’s final riddle, which asks “What is ice which gives you fire and which your fire freezes still more?” Upon correctly giving this answer, Calaf challenges Turandot to discover his name before sunrise.
ANSWER: Turandot [accept any answer indicating that it’s Princess Turandot herself] &lt;Other Arts&gt;
[10] In this aria from Act 2, Turandot bemoans the death of Princess Lo-u-Ling and introduces Calaf to the challenge of the three riddles. The title of this aria translates as “In this palace.”
ANSWER: “In questa reggia” (“een KWESS-tah REJ-ah”)
[10] Name this opera in which Calaf successfully wins the hand of the title Chinese princess, the final opera of Giacomo Puccini.
ANSWER: Turandot (“TURR-an-dot”)

390.
ID: 38883  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet K (Northwestern A, Oregon, Maryland A, and Auburn A) | Number: 16
BONUS: In 2016, this artist included three depictions of Winged Victory in various states of decay in an enormous mural that he created by removing grime from a wall running along the Tiber. For 10 points each:
[10] Kentridge was inspired by viewing Renaissance tondo paintings to produce a number of works in this shape, including 2000’s Atlas Procession. Parmigianino’s (“par-mee-jah-NEE-no’s”) Self-Portrait in a Convex Mirror is in this shape.
ANSWER: circle [or circular; or round] &lt;Painting&gt;
[10] Kentridge’s early charcoal work Embarkation, which shows a group of figures following a hyena onto a platform while reading, was loosely inspired by a 1717 fête galante (“FET gah-LONT”) painting by this French rococo artist.
ANSWER: Jean-Antoine Watteau (“vah-TOH”)
[10] Name this South African artist, best known for producing animated films such as Felix in Exile by repeatedly photographing a process of erasing and redrawing images with charcoal.
ANSWER: William Kentridge

391.
ID: 38884  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet K (Northwestern A, Oregon, Maryland A, and Auburn A) | Number: 17
BONUS: Answer the following about technology used in aerodynamics, for 10 points each.
[10] Aerodynamicists use computational fluid dynamics to study flow past complicated structures. Before solving the Navier–Stokes (“nahv-YAY Stokes”) equations, the program has to discretize space, generating one of these structures. These structures can be generated through Delaunay (“duh-loh-NAY”) triangulation.
ANSWER: mesh [accept mesh generation or grid generation] &lt;Other Science (Engineering)&gt;
[10] In addition to physical modeling, aerodynamicists use software like OpenFOAM to computationally model fluid flow. The results of flow field calculations can be visualized in one of these diagrams in which lines connect points where the flow velocity is equal, and color often corresponds to flow velocity.
ANSWER: contour diagram [or contour plot or contour map]
[10] In these facilities, aerodynamicists use fan systems to blow air at high speeds past an object suspended or mounted on a “sting” to study its response. Vertical versions of these systems are often used for skydiving practice.
ANSWER: wind tunnels [prompt on partial answer]

392.
ID: 38885  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet K (Northwestern A, Oregon, Maryland A, and Auburn A) | Number: 18
BONUS: Rule 704b of the Federal Rules of Evidence places limitations on the ability of people in this role to offer conclusions on the so-called “ultimate issue.” 10 points each:
[10] In defining the distinction between science and pseudoscience in his majority opinion in Daubert, Harry Blackmun quoted the claim that science should be defined by falsifiability put forth by this author of The Logic of Scientific Discovery.
ANSWER: Karl Popper [or Karl Raimund Popper] &lt;Social Science&gt;
[10] This standard, which replaced the Frye “general acceptance” test in federal law following a 1993 Supreme Court case involving Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals, instructs judges to assess the relevance and reliability of expert witness testimony.
ANSWER: the Daubert (“DOW-bert”) standard [accept the Daubert Test]
[10] Name this role in common law justice systems frequently filled by forensic scientists and forensic psychologists who deliver a namesake “opinion” about a case’s evidence.
ANSWER: expert witnesses [accept expert opinion; prompt on witness]

393.
ID: 38886  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet K (Northwestern A, Oregon, Maryland A, and Auburn A) | Number: 19
BONUS: This novel ends with Jack bursting into a party after discovering the truth about his the identity of his wife, who then falls to her death out of a window. For 10 points each:
[10] Roxy, who is 1/32 black, is switched at birth with a white boy named Tom and is raised as white in Pudd’nhead Wilson, a novel by this creator of Huckleberry Finn.
ANSWER: Mark Twain [or Samuel Langhorne Clemens] &lt;American Literature&gt;
[10] The title character of this author’s Autobiography of an Ex-Colored Man decides to pass as white after witnessing a lynching.
ANSWER: James Weldon Johnson
[10] Name this novel in which Irene recalls an encounter at a Drayton Hotel restaurant with Clare, a woman who is raised by her white aunts.
ANSWER: Passing (by Nella Larsen)

394.
ID: 38887  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History British
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet K (Northwestern A, Oregon, Maryland A, and Auburn A) | Number: 20
BONUS: The first usage of this word comes from a Count of Anjou named Geoffrey, and it is probably derived from a word for a broom. For 10 points each:
[10] Following the Tudor victory at Bosworth, a Yorkist uprising broke out two years later when this man attempted to place Lambert Simnel on the throne. He was killed at the Battle of Stoke.
ANSWER: John de la Pole, 1st Earl of Lincoln &lt;British History&gt;
[10] The other two cadet branches of the House of Plantagenet were the Houses of Lancaster and York, who fought for control in this 15th-century war that ended with the Battle of Bosworth Field.
ANSWER: Wars of the Roses
[10] Name this royal house of England that included the Angevins. Henry II was the first of this house to rule England.
ANSWER: House of Plantagenet

395.
ID: 38888  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Other
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet K (Northwestern A, Oregon, Maryland A, and Auburn A) | Number: 21
BONUS: A large number of icebergs split from one of these objects in Heinrich events. For 10 points each:
[10] More advanced ice coring drills use a cable-suspended device referred to by this term. This term also refers to an instrument carried by a weather balloon.
ANSWER: sonde (“sond”) [accept radiosonde] &lt;Other Science (Earth Science)&gt;
[10] These samples can be taken from glaciers and ice sheets using a large auger. One use for these samples is to track atmospheric concentrations of gases such as carbon dioxide over time.
ANSWER: ice cores
[10] Name these large bodies of ice that form at high elevations and extreme latitudes.
ANSWER: glaciers

396.
ID: 38889  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Computer Science
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet L (Delaware, UCSD A, and Amherst A) | Number: 1
BONUS: Performing this task assigns differently sized codewords to symbols based on their frequency. For 10 points each:
[10] Huffman coding creates this kind of system, which consists entirely of uniquely distinguishable words, because no codeword is contained in the beginning of another. The Kraft–McMillan inequality can check if a set of words with given lengths is this kind of system.
ANSWER: prefix codes [or prefix coding or prefix-free codes or comma-free code] &lt;Other Science (Mixed)&gt;
[10] This recursive optimal coding scheme for lossless data compression puts the symbols into a binary tree in order of their frequency, using each symbol’s location to determine its binary encoding.
ANSWER: Huffman coding
[10] Name this task that reduces the number of bits required to store information. Entropy coding is an example of a lossless scheme of performing this task.
ANSWER: lossless data compression

397.
ID: 38890  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature European
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet L (Delaware, UCSD A, and Amherst A) | Number: 2
BONUS: In this novella, Doctor Ivan Bormenthal notes that the pituitary gland gives “not rejuvenation but total humanization” and “predetermines the human image.” For 10 points each:
[10] Bulgakov’s science fiction-themed satires also include The Fatal Eggs, in which Vladimir Persikov accidentally creates a plague of snakes, ostriches, and crocodiles while trying to breed these animals.
ANSWER: chickens &lt;European Literature&gt;
[10] Heart of a Dog is a satire on Communist theories of human perfectibility written by this author, who also wrote The Master and Margarita.
ANSWER: Mikhail Bulgakov [or Mikhail Afanasyevich Bulgakov]
[10] Name this novella in which Professor Preobrazhensky transplants two organs into Sharik, turning him into a human.
ANSWER: Heart of a Dog [or Sobachye syerdtsye; accept A Dog’s Heart; accept any English translation that is identical to Heart of a Dog or A Dog’s Heart if you ignore the articles “a” and “the”]

398.
ID: 38891  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet L (Delaware, UCSD A, and Amherst A) | Number: 3
BONUS: This composer’s Ninth Piano Concerto was written for Victoire Jenamy, whose name was transcribed incorrectly, resulting in the concerto’s nickname being “Jeunehomme” (“zhun-UMM”). For 10 points each:
[10] Mozart’s other minor-key piano concerto, No. 20, is in this key. This is also the key of “Der Hölle Rache” (“dair HUR-luh RAH-khuh”) and Mozart’s Requiem.
ANSWER: D minor [do not accept “D major”] &lt;Music&gt;
[10] This Mozart piano concerto opens with the strings softly playing a highly chromatic melody in unison. This piano concerto is the second of only two by Mozart written in a minor key.
ANSWER: Piano Concerto No. 24 in C minor [accept either underlined part; or K. 491]
[10] Name this composer of 27 piano concertos and 41 symphonies, the last of which is nicknamed Jupiter.
ANSWER: Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart [or Johannes Chrysostomus Wolfgangus Theophilus Mozart]

399.
ID: 38892  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet L (Delaware, UCSD A, and Amherst A) | Number: 4
BONUS: The economic success of agricultural reforms implemented by this man in Abasha helped propel his political career. For 10 points each:
[10] This ethnic Georgian led the Soviet Union during World War II. He purged millions of political enemies during the 1930s.
ANSWER: Joseph Stalin [or Iosif Dzhugashvili] &lt;European History&gt;
[10] Shevardnadze was president of this former Soviet Republic and was forced to resign after its Rose Revolution.
ANSWER: Georgia [or Republic of Georgia]
[10] Name this politician known as the “Silver Fox” who was ousted in 2003 after mass protests sparked by accusations of electoral fraud. He was also Minister of Foreign Affairs under Mikhail Gorbachev.
ANSWER: Eduard Shevardnadze [or Eduard Ambrosiyevich Shevardnadze]

400.
ID: 38893  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet L (Delaware, UCSD A, and Amherst A) | Number: 5
BONUS: This author’s <em>Broken Earth</em> series is set on a supercontinent called the Stillness that is home to oppressed earth-controlling “orogenes,” one of whom cracks the continent to trigger a “Fifth Season.” For 10 points each:
[10] The first person to win the Hugo for Best Novel two years in a row was this homophobic Mormon, who won it for Ender’s Game and Speaker for the Dead.
ANSWER: Orson Scott Card &lt;Trash&gt;
[10] Jemisin’s first trilogy of novels, which began with The Hundred Thousand Kingdoms, is titled for this word. It also names a much worse “Cycle” by Christopher Paolini about Eragon and his dragon Saphira.
ANSWER: inheritance [accept the Inheritance Trilogy or Inheritance Cycle]
[10] Name this author who won the 2018 Hugo Award for Best Novel, making her the first person to win that award three years in a row.
ANSWER: N. K. Jemisin [or Nora K. Jemisin]

401.
ID: 38894  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet L (Delaware, UCSD A, and Amherst A) | Number: 6
BONUS: Factor H serves as an inhibitor of this pathway, which is abnormally activated in both atypical hemolytic-uremic syndrome and paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria. For 10 points each:
[10] Complement levels, along with anti-dsDNA antibodies, are commonly measured during flares of this disease. The most well-recognized symptom of this rheumatologic disease is a butterfly rash on the face.
ANSWER: lupus [or systemic lupus erythematosus; or SLE] &lt;Biology&gt;
[10] One of the three activating pathways for the complement system is named after these proteins that bind to carbohydrates. In particular, the versions of these proteins in the complement system bind to mannose and glucose.
ANSWER: lectins [accept MBL or mannose-binding lectins]
[10] Name this pathway that has classical and alternative portions. The terminal part of this pathway generates the membrane attack complex, which directly destroys pathogens.
ANSWER: complement system

402.
ID: 38895  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature World
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet L (Delaware, UCSD A, and Amherst A) | Number: 7
BONUS: A poem by this author follows a description of uncollected bones with a description of new ghosts angered by injustice and old ghosts weeping. For 10 points each:
[10] Thirty-nine Du Fu poems are included in an anthology whose title promises this many Tang poems, compiled by Sun Zhu during the Qing (“ching”) Dynasty. The Classic of Poetry is also often said to have this many poems, though it actually has slightly more.
ANSWER: 300 &lt;World Literature&gt;
[10] Du Fu lived in this country, which is the setting of his poem “Autumn Day in Kui Prefecture.”
ANSWER: China [or Zhongguo]
[10] Name this 8th-century poet who described a procession of conscript archers in his “Song of the Wagons.”
ANSWER: Du Fu [or Tu Fu]

403.
ID: 38896  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Philosophy | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet L (Delaware, UCSD A, and Amherst A) | Number: 8
BONUS: A paper that argues [emphasize] <em>against</em> this philosophical principle analyzes three versions of a man named Jones who is alternatively indifferent to, “stampeded by,” or unaffected by a threat in deciding whether to perform an action. For 10 points each:
[10] The principle of alternate possibilities is often used as an argument against compatibilism, which claims that determinism is consistent with this ability of people to have control over their own actions.
ANSWER: free will &lt;Philosophy&gt;
[10] The aforementioned paper presents the namesake “cases” of a philosopher with this last name, which he shares with a city that names a Marxist school of philosophers affiliated with its Institute for Social Research, including Max Horkheimer.
ANSWER: Frankfurt [accept Harry Frankfurt; accept Frankfurt School]
[10] Name this principle which says that an agent is only morally responsible for an action if the agent could have done otherwise.
ANSWER: principle of alternate possibilities [or PAP]

404.
ID: 38897  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet L (Delaware, UCSD A, and Amherst A) | Number: 9
BONUS: California State Route 13 in Oakland was named after this man in 1957. For 10 points each:
[10] The first recorded debate between presidential candidates took place during the 1948 Republican primaries between Thomas Dewey and this man, who ran for president seven more times. In that debate, Dewey told him “you can’t shoot an idea with a gun” after he proposed banning the Communist party in the United States.
ANSWER: Harold Stassen &lt;American History&gt;
[10] Warren was the running mate of this Governor of New York during his presidential run. This man lost votes from Southern voters after Strom Thurmond broke away from the Democratic Party.
ANSWER: Thomas Dewey [or Thomas Edmund Dewey]
[10] Name this governor of California who later became Chief Justice of the Supreme Court. He was Chief Justice during the Brown v. Board case.
ANSWER: Earl Warren

405.
ID: 38898  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet L (Delaware, UCSD A, and Amherst A) | Number: 10
BONUS: Malcolm Hailey directed a decade-long research survey on the “extent to which modern knowledge” was being applied to this region. For 10 points each:
[10] Tilley coined the phrase “thinking like an empire” to refer to Britain’s colonial use of scientific ideas, a reference to James Scott’s work on “seeing like” one of these entities. Max Weber (“VAY-bur”) argued that a monopoly on the legitimate use of force defines these entities.
ANSWER: states [accept Seeing Like a State] &lt;Social Science&gt;
[10] Tilley describes how these things were introduced to Kenya by Richard Oliver. Oliver was a student of Lewis Terman, who developed the “Stanford–Binet (“bin-AY”)” one of these things that produced a namesake “quotient.”
ANSWER: intelligence tests [accept word forms; or IQ tests]
[10] Name this region described as a potential source of “results of striking practical importance” in a “view” of it written by Julian Huxley. The idea of this region as a “living laboratory” is explored in a book by Helen Tilley.
ANSWER: Africa [accept An African Survey, Africa View, or Africa as a Living Laboratory; accept Sub-Saharan Africa]

406.
ID: 38899  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet L (Delaware, UCSD A, and Amherst A) | Number: 11
BONUS: Fionnula Flanagan wrote a play entitled <em>[this author’s] Women</em>, about the women in his life and some of his female characters. For 10 points each:
[10] Among the fictional characters brought to life in James Joyce’s Women is Cissy Caffrey, one of the girls on the Sandymount Strand in the “Nausicaa” episode of this novel about a day in the life of Leopold Bloom.
ANSWER: Ulysses &lt;British Literature&gt;
[10] In the movie, Flanagan also plays Nora, Joyce’s wife, who had this last name.
ANSWER: Barnacle
[10] Name this author. In the movie version of the aforementioned play, Flanagan portrays his patron, Harriet Shaw Weaver.
ANSWER: James Joyce [or James Augustine Aloysius Joyce]

407.
ID: 38900  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet L (Delaware, UCSD A, and Amherst A) | Number: 12
BONUS: This body was formed as a reaction to Peter the Great’s comparison of Russia to the rest of Europe. For 10 points each:
[10] The first patriarch of Moscow, installed in 1589, was this man, who shares his name with a Biblical figure subjected to torment by God to test his faith.
ANSWER: Job of Moscow [or Iov] &lt;Religion&gt;
[10] The Most Holy Synod was replaced by the return of the Patriarchate of Moscow, which is currently led by this man. Political opponents often accuse him of cozying up to the Putin regime.
ANSWER: Patriarch Kirill of Moscow [or Cyril; or Vladimir Mikhailovich Gundyayev]
[10] Identify this body that was formed by Peter in 1721 and was the highest governing body of the Russian Eastern Orthodox church until 1918.
ANSWER: Most Holy Synod (“SIN-uhd”)

408.
ID: 38901  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Audiovisual
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet L (Delaware, UCSD A, and Amherst A) | Number: 13
BONUS: According to the book <em>Film Form</em>, this technique imbues all of Japanese culture except for cinema, including Sharaku’s portraits of kabuki actors and “transitionless acting” in Japanese theater. For 10 points each:
[10] This director of By the Law demonstrated the power of montage by alternating identical shots of an actor’s expressionless face with different images.
ANSWER: Lev Kuleshov [or Lev Vladimirovich Kuleshov] &lt;Other Arts&gt;
[10] Film Form is by this theorist who tested out his theories of montage in a scene in which a baby carriage rolls down the Odessa Steps.
ANSWER: Sergei Eisenstein [or Sergei Mikhailovich Eisenstein]
[10] Name this editing technique used by many early Soviet directors. This term also refers to scenes like the training sequence in Rocky.
ANSWER: montage

409.
ID: 38902  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet L (Delaware, UCSD A, and Amherst A) | Number: 14
BONUS: This result was published 10 years after earlier laws including the law of equal areas in equal times. For 10 points each:
[10] Applying Newton’s law of gravitation to the whole Solar System results in a very complicated n-body problem. However, the motion is relatively simple, thanks to this theorem from classical mechanics. Loosely speaking, this theorem states that quasi-periodic orbits are stable to small perturbations.
ANSWER: KAM theorem [or Kolmogorov–Arnold–Moser theorem] &lt;Physics&gt;
[10] Though Kepler determined his laws empirically, they can be derived with this inverse square law put forth by Newton.
ANSWER: Newton’s law of universal gravitation [accept gravity in place of “gravitation”; prompt on Newton’s law; do not accept any numbered laws]
[10] Name this law which states that the square of the period of an elliptical orbit is proportional to the cube of the semimajor axis.
ANSWER: Kepler’s third law of planetary motion [or the third law of Kepler]

410.
ID: 38903  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet L (Delaware, UCSD A, and Amherst A) | Number: 15
BONUS: This ruler won the 955 Battle of Lechfeld against the Magyars. For 10 points each:
[10] Henry II signed the Peace of Bautzen with this Polish king, who captured Kiev to install his son-in-law Sviatopolk the Accursed as king. He was the son of Mieszko I (“m’YESH-ko the first”), the first Christian king of Poland.
ANSWER: Bołeslaw I [or Bołeslaw the Brave; or Bołeslaw Chrobry; prompt on Boleslaw] &lt;European History&gt;
[10] Otto was the son of a king of this name who was nicknamed “the Fowler.” A Holy Roman Emperor of this name walked to Canossa after being excommunicated by Gregory VII.
ANSWER: Henry [accept Henry the Fowler; accept Henry IV]
[10] Name this first Holy Roman Emperor after Charlemagne.
ANSWER: Otto I [or Otto the Great; prompt on Otto]

411.
ID: 38904  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet L (Delaware, UCSD A, and Amherst A) | Number: 16
BONUS: A short story by Will Self replaces the title object of this story with a rock of crack. For 10 points each:
[10] In this story from the Gatsby cluster, Father Schwartz collapses after hearing confession from Rudolph Miller. This story developed out of a discarded early draft of The Great Gatsby.
ANSWER: “Absolution” &lt;American Literature&gt;
[10] “The Diamond as Big as the Ritz” is one of the five stories by this author known collectively as the “Gatsby cluster” because of their relationship to The Great Gatsby.
ANSWER: F. Scott Fitzgerald [or Francis Scott Key Fitzgerald]
[10] Name this story in which Percy Washington boasts that his father is the richest man in the world because he owns the enormous title object.
ANSWER: “The Diamond as Big as the Ritz”

412.
ID: 38905  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Mythology | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet L (Delaware, UCSD A, and Amherst A) | Number: 17
BONUS: The oldest known depiction of this creature is found on the mace of Scorpion II. For 10 points each:
[10] Appropriately, Anubis is the son of Set and this goddess, his wife. In addition to her funerary duties, this goddess was worshipped as the protector of the bennu, the rough Egyptian equivalent of the phoenix.
ANSWER: Nephthys &lt;Mythology&gt;
[10] The hieroglyphics of the Set animal somewhat resemble this pointy-eared doglike creature. The head of the god of mummification, Anubis, is traditionally one of these creatures.
ANSWER: jackal
[10] Name this mysterious creature that most scholars suspect is either a composite or represents a now-extinct animal. Ancient Egyptians used hieroglyphics of this creature to represent weather events like storms.
ANSWER: the Set animal [accept sha or any answer indicating the unknown animal used in depictions of Set’s head]

413.
ID: 38906  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet L (Delaware, UCSD A, and Amherst A) | Number: 18
BONUS: Answer the following about the peripatetic German painter Moritz Rugendas, for 10 points each.
[10] Rugendas was inspired by the travels of Alexander Humboldt, as was this American member of the Hudson River School, who depicted a landscape traversed by Humboldt in his painting Heart of the Andes.
ANSWER: Frederic Edwin Church &lt;Painting&gt;
[10] With the help of Victor Aimé Huber (“ay-MAY yoo-BAIR”), Rugendas published that image in a set of landscapes titled for this type of voyage to Brazil. William Gilpin popularized this term in the English art world of the late 18th century.
ANSWER: picturesque [or pittoresque; accept Picturesque Voyage to Brazil]
[10] Rugendas’s depiction of a so-called Virgin Forest in this modern-day country’s province of Rio de Janeiro became the archetypal European image of a tropical forest.
ANSWER: Brazil [or Federative Republic of Brazil; or República Federativa do Brasil; accept Picturesque Voyage to Brazil or Voyage Pittoresque dans le Brésil]

414.
ID: 38907  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet L (Delaware, UCSD A, and Amherst A) | Number: 19
BONUS: Coupling between instances of this element is the basis for the INADEQUATE experiment. For 10 points each:
[10] This quantity is plotted on the x-axis of a simple 1D NMR experiment. It is usually in units of parts per million, and is a normalized version of the resonance frequency of a particular nucleus relative to a standard.
ANSWER: chemical shift [prompt on delta] &lt;Chemistry&gt;
[10] Coupling between directly bound protons and carbon-13 nuclei can be observed in this 2D NMR experiment developed by Bodenhausen, which largely replaced HETCOR due to its higher sensitivity.
ANSWER: 2D HSQC [or Heteronuclear Single Quantum Coherence]
[10] Name this element, whose 13 isotope is a common one used in NMR spectroscopy. Its 14 isotope decays to nitrogen-14 with a half-life of 5700 years.
ANSWER: carbon [or C]

415.
ID: 38908  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet L (Delaware, UCSD A, and Amherst A) | Number: 20
BONUS: This leader escaped to Libya by helicopter when his country’s capital fell in 1979. For 10 points each:
[10] The overthrow of Idi Amin was the culmination of a war which resulted from Uganda’s attempt to annex this northwestern region of Tanzania.
ANSWER: Kagera Region [or West Lake Region] &lt;World History&gt;
[10] Idi Amin was overthrown when Julius Nyerere, the president of this country, invaded Uganda. This country was formed from the merger of Tanganyika and Zanzibar.
ANSWER: Tanzania
[10] Name this former dictator who expelled all Asians from his country and made a dubious claim to the crown of Scotland.
ANSWER: Idi Amin [or Idi Amin Dada Oumee]

416.
ID: 38909  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet L (Delaware, UCSD A, and Amherst A) | Number: 21
BONUS: After being afflicted with leprosy, this novel’s protagonist starts to advocate cannibalism. For 10 points each:
[10] Kracht’s pop-lit debut novel, Faserland, has often been compared to the novels of this American author, including Less Than Zero and American Psycho.
ANSWER: Bret Easton Ellis &lt;European Literature&gt;
[10] Kracht was called the “bouncer of right-wing thought” in a controversial review of Imperium published in this weekly German newsmagazine whose name means “The Mirror.”
ANSWER: Der Spiegel
[10] Name this Christian Kracht novel which fictionalizes the story of August Engelhardt, who founded a nudist colony whose members subsisted entirely on coconuts.
ANSWER: Imperium

417.
ID: 38910  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History Classical
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet M (Columbia A, Wesleyan, and Chicago A) | Number: 1
BONUS: A ruler of this city named Sous refused to give up his conquests because he had not drunk from a spring, though all his men had. For 10 points each:
[10] Lycurgus also established this Spartan council of elders. It was formed of 28 men over the age of 60 plus the two Spartan kings.
ANSWER: gerousia &lt;Ancient History&gt;
[10] Lycurgus implemented the agoge, which forced every Spartan male to join this institution.
ANSWER: the military [accept the army]
[10] Name this city whose laws were legendarily established by Lycurgus.
ANSWER: Sparta [accept Lacedaemon]

418.
ID: 38911  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature World
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet M (Columbia A, Wesleyan, and Chicago A) | Number: 2
BONUS: Answer the following about Catalan literature, for 10 points each.
[10] This author considered Tirant lo Blanch (“tee-RAHN lo BLAHNK”), a chivalric romance written in the Valencian dialect of Catalan, to be much better than most examples of its genre. He satirized chivalric romances in general in his novel Don Quixote.
ANSWER: Miguel de Cervantes [or Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra] &lt;European Literature&gt;
[10] This term is used to describe the period from the 15th to the 18th century in Catalan literature. A late 19th-century literary movement of this name emphasized material excess and aestheticism.
ANSWER: decadence [or decadent movement; or La Decadència]
[10] The 2007 edition of this book fair, the world’s largest, was focused on Catalan literature, and garnered criticism for not highlighting Catalonian literature written in Spanish.
ANSWER: Frankfurt Book Fair [or Frankfurter Buchmesse]

419.
ID: 38912  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet M (Columbia A, Wesleyan, and Chicago A) | Number: 3
BONUS: The center of the brain responsible for this sense is described by the ice cube model, which arranges neurons into dominance columns and orientation-sensitive interblobs. For 10 points each:
[10] The lateral geniculate nucleus is arranged into six layers, the first two of which contains magnocellular neurons, and the last four of which contain this kind of neuron, which gets input from midget cells of the optic tract.
ANSWER: parvocellular neurons [or P-neurons] &lt;Biology&gt;
[10] This lobe of the brain at the back of the head contains the primary visual cortex. Bilateral lesions of it can cause Anton–Babinski syndrome, which is also known as cortical blindness.
ANSWER: occipital lobe
[10] Name this sense that is processed by the lateral geniculate nucleus, which receives input from the retina.
ANSWER: vision [accept reasonable equivalents like seeing or sight]

420.
ID: 38913  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet M (Columbia A, Wesleyan, and Chicago A) | Number: 4
BONUS: Many masterpieces of Russian art are found in the Tretyakov Gallery in Moscow. For 10 points each:
[10] The gallery also houses a Symbolist painting by Mikhail Vrubel depicting an extremely muscular one of these beings seated atop a mountain. Many of these beings torture the damned in the rightmost panel of the Garden of Earthly Delights.
ANSWER: demons [accept The Seated Demon; accept devils] &lt;Painting&gt;
[10] Sergei Tretyakov, the gallery’s founder, personally purchased and donated this painting by Vasily Vereshchagin (“ver-esh-CHAY-gin”), part of his Turkestan series. In it, dozens of crows hover above a giant pyramid of skulls outside the city of Samarkand.
ANSWER: The Apotheosis of War [or Apofeoz Voyni]
[10] The gallery is home to this medieval Orthodox artist’s most famous icon, which depicts three angels visiting the Oak of Abraham at Mamre but is usually interpreted as an icon of the Trinity.
ANSWER: Andrei Rublev

421.
ID: 38914  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Trash | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet M (Columbia A, Wesleyan, and Chicago A) | Number: 5
BONUS: Before playing this team, St. Louis Rams wide receiver Ricky Proehl made the ultimately correct but extremely ironic prediction “Tonight, a dynasty is born, baby.” For 10 points each:
[10] New England’s first score in Super Bowl XXXVI (“36”) came on a 47-yard interception return by this cornerback, a Michigan alum who later picked Peyton Manning off three times in the 2003 AFC Championship Game.
ANSWER: Ty Law [or Tajuan E. Law] &lt;Trash&gt;
[10] This Patriots player, who is both the NFL’s active and all-time scoring leader, kicked game-winning field goals in the “Tuck Rule” game and both Super Bowl XXXVI and XXXVII (“36 and 37”).
ANSWER: Adam Vinatieri [or Adam Matthew Vinatieri]
[10] Name this team, whose ensuing victory over the Rams in Super Bowl XXXVI (“36”) was the first of their five titles under Bill Belichick and Tom Brady.
ANSWER: New England Patriots [accept either underlined portion; accept Pats]

422.
ID: 38915  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet M (Columbia A, Wesleyan, and Chicago A) | Number: 6
BONUS: While attempting to imitate the sound of an Indian drum in his piece <em>Ragamalika</em>, Maurice Delage may have been one of the first to use this instrument. For 10 points each:
[10] This American composer and teacher of John Cage pioneered extended piano technique in pieces like The Banshee, in which the performer scrapes the piano’s strings longitudinally.
ANSWER: Henry Cowell [or Henry Dixon Cowell] &lt;Music&gt;
[10] Sonatas and Interludes and 4'33" are by this avant-garde composer.
ANSWER: John Cage [or John Milton Cage Jr.]
[10] Name this instrument featured in a cycle of twenty Sonatas and Interludes by the composer of 4'33" (“four minutes and thirty-three seconds”).
ANSWER: prepared piano [prompt on piano]

423.
ID: 38916  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet M (Columbia A, Wesleyan, and Chicago A) | Number: 7
BONUS: P. V. Narasimha Rao was responsible for the end of this system. For 10 points each:
[10] Nehru was a co-founder of this group along with Josip Broz Tito and others in 1961. Nehru’s “five rules of peaceful co-existence,” or panchsheel (“punch-sheel”), were a basis for this group, which opposed hegemony and imperialism.
ANSWER: Non-Aligned Movement [or NAM] &lt;World History&gt;
[10] The License Raj was a result of this first Prime Minister of India’s desire to implement socialism. He gave the “Tryst with Destiny” speech on the eve of India’s independence.
ANSWER: Jawaharlal Nehru
[10] Name this complex system of regulations and bureaucracy in India from independence until 1990. It has often been blamed for the lethargic “Hindu rate of growth.”
ANSWER: License Raj [or Permit Raj; do not accept or prompt on just “Raj”]

424.
ID: 38917  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet M (Columbia A, Wesleyan, and Chicago A) | Number: 8
BONUS: Jacques Dubochet, Joachim Frank, and Richard Henderson received the 2017 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for developing this technique. For 10 points each:
[10] Cryo-EM works by embedding the sample in water and inducing this process, which does not form crystals in contrast to normal freezing. In this process, substances transform into a non-amorphous solid, or glass.
ANSWER: vitrification [accept word forms of vitrify] &lt;Chemistry&gt;
[10] Ethane cooled to the temperature of this liquid is used to rapid-freeze samples for Cryo-EM. This liquid is stored in Dewar (“DEW-er”) flasks, is used to snap-freeze biological samples, and has a temperature of 77 kelvins.
ANSWER: liquid nitrogen [or LN2]
[10] Name this technique that can produce high-resolution images of molecules. It can be used to study biomolecules in their native environment by cooling samples with liquid ethane.
ANSWER: cryo-electron microscopy [or cryo-EM; or cryogenic electron microscopy; or cryogenic EM; or cryogenic transmission electron microscopy; or cryogenic TEM; or cryo-transmission electron microscopy; or cryo-TEM; or ECT or; electron cryo-tomography; or cryo-electron tomography; or cryo-ET or CET; prompt on electron microscopy; prompt on transmission electron microscopy; prompt on EM or TEM or microscopy]

425.
ID: 38918  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature World
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet M (Columbia A, Wesleyan, and Chicago A) | Number: 9
BONUS: This poet is discovered by the Bedouin prince Nawfal, who tries and fails to convince the family of this poet’s beloved to let the couple wed. For 10 points each:
[10] Nizami wrote the Five Treasures in this language, which Omar Khayyam used to write the Rubaiyat.
ANSWER: Farsi [or Persian] &lt;World Literature&gt;
[10] Layla and Majnun is one of this many “treasures” written by the 12th-century poet Nizami. There are traditionally said to be this many great Tamil epics.
ANSWER: five
[10] Name this poet who is given an epithet meaning “crazy.”
ANSWER: Majnun [or Qays ibn al-Mulawwah]

426.
ID: 38919  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Religion | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet M (Columbia A, Wesleyan, and Chicago A) | Number: 10
BONUS: Some participants in a ceremony centered around this action would impale themselves with animal bones to become attached to the central pole. For 10 points each:
[10] Indigenous Americans use this term to describe people who conduct fake religious ceremonies, which can be life-threatening in the case of sweat lodges. An article by Lisa Aldred pairs them with “Astroturf Sun Dances.”
ANSWER: plastic shamans [or plastic medicine men] &lt;Religion&gt;
[10] Another common ritual among Plains tribes centers around the construction of these temporary purifying facilities, central to the Lakota inipi ceremony.
ANSWER: sweat lodges
[10] Name this action, the center of a “Sun” ceremony practiced by many Plains tribes. Wovoka founded a movement whose adherents believed that performing this action could bring back ghosts from the dead.
ANSWER: dancing [accept Sun Dance or Ghost Dance]

427.
ID: 38920  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet M (Columbia A, Wesleyan, and Chicago A) | Number: 11
BONUS: Answer the following about some Dutch sculptors, for 10 points each.
[10] The much earlier sculptor Claus Sluter designed a “well” named for this Old Testament character, who is depicted with horns on his head in a Michelangelo sculpture.
ANSWER: Moses [accept Well of Moses] &lt;Other Arts&gt;
[10] Theo Jansen (“TAY-oh YAWN-sen”) makes kinetic sculptures out of PVC that resemble animals and which are able to walk along the beach, propelled by the wind. Those sculptures have this Dutch name.
ANSWER: strandbeesten (“STRAWND-baste-uh”)
[10] The Dutch artist Coosje van Bruggen (“KOH-shuh fon BRUH-hin”) was the wife and collaborator of this American sculptor, who worked with her on public art pieces like Lipstick (Ascending) on Caterpillar Tracks and Spoonbridge and Cherry.
ANSWER: Claes Oldenburg (“KLAHSS OLD-en-burkh”)

428.
ID: 38921  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Philosophy | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet M (Columbia A, Wesleyan, and Chicago A) | Number: 12
BONUS: In a work titled for this philosopher “and justice,” Hanna Fenichel Pitkin employs his concept of “language regions” to illustrate the differences between moral and political discourses. For 10 points each:
[10] Wittgenstein begins the Philosophical Investigations by relaying this earlier Christian philosopher’s account of language acquisition in his Confessions. He also wrote The City of God.
ANSWER: St. Augustine of Hippo &lt;Philosophy&gt;
[10] Wittgenstein introduced the notions of “language regions” and “forms of life” in this posthumously published book, which refuted many of his earlier ideas in the Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus.
ANSWER: Philosophical Investigations [or Philosophische Untersuchungen]
[10] Name this philosopher. In The Highest Poverty, Giorgio Agamben uses this philosopher’s concept of “forms of life” to investigate the political implications of the development of written rules in 9th-century monasteries.
ANSWER: Ludwig Wittgenstein (“VIT-gen-stein”)

429.
ID: 38922  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet M (Columbia A, Wesleyan, and Chicago A) | Number: 13
BONUS: Soap bubbles are examples of these systems, resulting in their multicolored appearance. For 10 points each:
[10] If the index of refraction for the coating is between that of air and the glass it covers, then reflected waves at both interfaces experience a phase shift. In that case, this is the minimum coating thickness, which equals half the minimum thickness when there is only one phase shift. Express your answer in terms of the wavelength in the coating material. You have 10 seconds.
ANSWER: lambda over four [or one-quarter wavelength; accept mathematical equivalents] &lt;Physics&gt;
[10] Conditions for thin-film interference depend on the phase shift that reflected light acquires. Light acquires a phase shift of this angle, corresponding to half a cycle, when it reflects off an interface with a higher index material.
ANSWER: pi radians [or 180 degrees; prompt on 180 by asking “What unit are you using?”]
[10] Name these structures whose geometry allows them to be used to make anti-reflective coatings, where light rays reflected at the upper and lower boundaries acquire a relative phase shift, causing a namesake type of interference.
ANSWER: thin films [accept thin-film interference]

430.
ID: 38923  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet M (Columbia A, Wesleyan, and Chicago A) | Number: 14
BONUS: During this battle, soldiers used stormtrooper tactics and poisonous gas shells to break the Italian lines. For 10 points each:
[10] The Battle of Caporetto led to the appointment of Vittorio Orlando, who represented Italy as one of the “Big Four” at this peace conference.
ANSWER: Versailles Peace Conference [or Paris Peace Conference] &lt;European History&gt;
[10] The Italian forces at the Battle of Caporetto were led by this general, whose failure led him to be replaced by Armando Diaz. His father Raffaele captured Rome in 1870.
ANSWER: Luigi Cadorna
[10] Name this disastrous defeat for Italian forces during World War I. It was the twelfth battle along the Isonzo River.
ANSWER: Battle of Caporetto [accept Battle of Karfreit]

431.
ID: 38924  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet M (Columbia A, Wesleyan, and Chicago A) | Number: 15
BONUS: Faith Barrett’s book <em>To Fight Aloud Is Very Brave</em> calls this conflict a “poetry-fueled war.” For 10 points each:
[10] Part of this poet’s 2006 book Native Guard is about an all-black Civil War regiment called the Louisiana Native Guards. Many of her poems deal with her mother’s death at the hands of the latter’s second husband.
ANSWER: Natasha Trethewey &lt;American Literature&gt;
[10] To Fight Aloud Is Very Brave takes its title from a poem by this “Belle of Amherst.”
ANSWER: Emily Dickinson [or Emily Elizabeth Dickinson]
[10] Name this war. A poem written during this war describes how “in the beauty of the lilies Christ was born across the sea.”
ANSWER: American Civil War (The poem is “The Battle Hymn of the Republic.”)

432.
ID: 38925  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Math
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet M (Columbia A, Wesleyan, and Chicago A) | Number: 16
BONUS: Answer the following questions about the Wigner semicircle distribution, for 10 points each.
[10] Because the semicircle distribution is symmetrical about 0, all its odd moments vanish. In contrast, its even moments are proportional to these numbers, which arise in many combinatorial problems, such as balancing parentheses or the number of ways to cut an n-plus-2-gon into n triangles.
ANSWER: Catalan numbers &lt;Other Science (Math)&gt;
[10] By definition, the integral of the PDF over the support equals this value, so that total probability is conserved. This is the total probability of getting either heads or tails when flipping a coin.
ANSWER: one [or 1; accept 100 percent, but do not accept “100”]
[10] The semicircle shape of the distribution can be seen by plotting this function for it. For a continuous random variable, the value of this function at a given point is the relative likelihood that the value of the random variable will equal that point.
ANSWER: probability density function [or PDF]

433.
ID: 38926  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet M (Columbia A, Wesleyan, and Chicago A) | Number: 17
BONUS: This program was presented in a speech given at the University of Michigan in 1964. For 10 points each:
[10] This Secretary of the Interior under Kennedy and Johnson played a key role in enacting the conservation laws of the Great Society, including the Wilderness Act.
ANSWER: Stewart Udall [or Stewart Lee Udall] &lt;American History&gt;
[10] These items were required to have warning labels by a Great Society law passed in 1965. Luther Terry was instrumental in raising awareness of the risks of these items.
ANSWER: cigarettes [prompt on tobacco products]
[10] Name this set of wide-ranging programs launched by Lyndon B. Johnson that was intended to improve education, healthcare, and housing, among other concerns.
ANSWER: Great Society

434.
ID: 38927  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Mythology | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet M (Columbia A, Wesleyan, and Chicago A) | Number: 18
BONUS: This god and Mars were replaced by Juno and Minerva in the second version of the Capitoline (“CAP-it-uh-line”) Triad. For 10 points each:
[10] The worship of Quirinus declined as foreign mystery cults grew. This Phrygian goddess began being worshipped in Rome following the recommendation of the Sibylline oracle.
ANSWER: Cybele [accept Magna Mater or Great Mother] &lt;Mythology&gt;
[10] The third member of the Capitoline Triad was this god. This king of the Roman gods was associated with the sky and thunder, much like his Greek counterpart Zeus.
ANSWER: Jupiter
[10] Name this Roman god whose worship declined as the Roman Empire grew. His high priest was less important only than the Flamen Dialis (“FLAH-men dee-AH-liss”) and the Flamen Martialis (“FLAH-men mar-tee-AH-liss”).
ANSWER: Quirinus [prompt on Romulus]

435.
ID: 38928  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet M (Columbia A, Wesleyan, and Chicago A) | Number: 19
BONUS: Stevan Hobfoll defined this phenomenon as a reaction to either a potential loss of resources or lack of gain of resources following investment. For 10 points each:
[10] Research indicates that this seahorse-shaped region of the brain responsible for consolidating memories is suppressed during periods of high stress, which may be a cause of the flashbacks experienced by those with PTSD.
ANSWER: hippocampus &lt;Social Science&gt;
[10] This Harvard psychologist conducted an infamous series of experiments on the effects of stress, in which undergraduates, including Ted Kaczynski, were verbally abused. Earlier and somewhat more ethically, he worked with Christiana Morgan to develop the Thematic Apperception Test.
ANSWER: Henry Murray [or Henry Alexander Murray]
[10] Name this phenomenon described by Hans Selye’s “general adaptation syndrome.” A scale developed by Thomas Holmes and Richard Rahe (“RAY-hee”) uses “life change units” to estimate the health effects of it.
ANSWER: psychological stress

436.
ID: 38929  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet M (Columbia A, Wesleyan, and Chicago A) | Number: 20
BONUS: There is something that John Dryden should be blamed for. For 10 points each:
[10] Dryden’s own play All For Love features this real-life historical figure as its male protagonist. In another play, he delivers a speech that begins “Friends, Romans, countrymen, lend me your ears.”
ANSWER: Mark Antony [or Marcus Antonius; or Mark Anthony] &lt;British Literature&gt;
[10] The offending phrase “the bodies that those souls were frighted from” appears in this Ben Jonson tragedy, his only foray into the genre besides Sejanus His Fall.
ANSWER: Catiline His Conspiracy
[10] Dryden is widely credited with originating the entirely bullshit rule that English sentences should not end with this part of speech, as in the phrase “the bodies that those souls were frighted from,” which he criticized.
ANSWER: prepositions

437.
ID: 38930  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet M (Columbia A, Wesleyan, and Chicago A) | Number: 21
BONUS: Name these cities that are the subjects of books called <em>Capital</em>, for 10 points each.
[10] John Lanchester’s novel Capital is set in this city, which is the subject of a “biography” by Peter Ackroyd.
ANSWER: London &lt;Other Literature&gt;
[10] Kenneth Goldsmith’s Capital collects quotations about this city, which he calls the “capital of the 20th century,” though it isn’t a national capital. Teju Cole’s Open City and Jay McInerney’s Bright Lights, Big City are set here.
ANSWER: New York City [or NYC]
[10] Rana Dasgupta’s Capital is about the 21st-century “eruption” of this capital of India.
ANSWER: New Delhi

438.
ID: 38931  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet N (MIT, UIUC A, and Virginia Tech) | Number: 1
BONUS: In this poem’s section “Yeux Glauques (“yuh GLOAK”),” the speaker criticizes John Ruskin and Robert Buchanan for attacking Dante Rossetti and Algernon Swinburne. For 10 points each:
[10] Mauberley’s middle name may be an homage to Selwyn Image, a member of this group of British poets co-founded by W. B. Yeats. They met at a pub called Ye Olde Cheshire Cheese.
ANSWER: Rhymers’ Club &lt;American Literature&gt;
[10] Mauberley is often compared to this character, who asks “Do I dare to eat a peach?” in a “love song” by T. S. Eliot.
ANSWER: J. Alfred Prufrock [accept either underlined portion; accept “The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock”]
[10] Name this long poem by Ezra Pound whose title character tries to “maintain ‘the sublime’ in the old sense” and “resuscitate the dead art of poetry.”
ANSWER: Hugh Selwyn Mauberley

439.
ID: 38932  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Math
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet N (MIT, UIUC A, and Virginia Tech) | Number: 2
BONUS: A “trick” named for these functions is often used to produce a nonlinear classification boundary in support vector machines. For 10 points each:
[10] Support vector machines usually rely on an optimization algorithm named for “descending” in the direction given by this function. This function points toward local minima in parameter space.
ANSWER: gradient [accept stochastic gradient descent] &lt;Other Science (Computer Science)&gt;
[10] SVMs are an example of a supervised model in this field of computer science that makes predictions based on sample “training” data.
ANSWER: machine learning [or ML; prompt on, but DO NOT REVEAL, artificial intelligence or AI]
[10] Name these functions that give a way to calculate the inner product of vectors transformed into a different feature space. These functions can be based on polynomials or radial basis functions.
ANSWER: kernel functions [accept kernel trick]

440.
ID: 38933  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet N (MIT, UIUC A, and Virginia Tech) | Number: 3
BONUS: Name these painters who were inspired by the work of John Cage, for 10 points each:
[10] Cage lost two games of musical chess to this artist as part of the performance piece “Reunion.” Earlier in his career, this man caused a stir at the Armory Show with his Nude Descending a Staircase, No. 2.
ANSWER: Marcel Duchamp (“dew-SHOM”) &lt;Painting&gt;
[10] The subtitle of this man’s painting Blue With China Ink notes that it is an homage to John Cage, with whom he was a co-editor of the art journal Possibilities. This abstract expressionist painted the series Elegy to the Spanish Republic.
ANSWER: Robert Motherwell
[10] The Tate Modern houses Cage, a set of six square abstract paintings produced in 2006 by this artist with the help of a squeegee. He painted his daughter Betty looking away from the viewer in a 1988 portrait of her.
ANSWER: Gerhard Richter

441.
ID: 38934  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet N (MIT, UIUC A, and Virginia Tech) | Number: 4
BONUS: Answer the following about the 26th of July Movement, for 10 points each.
[10] Castro gave his “History Will Absolve Me” speech after a failed assault on this military location. Castro’s revolutionary movement later took its name from the date this attack occurred, July 26th, 1953.
ANSWER: Moncada Barracks &lt;World History&gt;
[10] The 26th of July Movement was led by this man, who took power after the fall of Batista. He would rule Cuba for the next fifty or so years, before passing power to his brother Raúl.
ANSWER: Fidel Castro [or Fidel Alejandro Castro Ruz]
[10] The 26th of July Movement overthrew this dictator, whose regime killed tens of thousands of people while giving away his country’s key industries and resources to the United States.
ANSWER: Fulgencio Batista [or Fulgencio Batista y Zaldívar; or Rubén Zaldívar]

442.
ID: 38935  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Religion | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet N (MIT, UIUC A, and Virginia Tech) | Number: 5
BONUS: To become a priest in this religion, the initiate must go through four rituals, beginning with obtaining beaded necklaces known as the ilekes (“ee-LAY-kays”). For 10 points each:
[10] An ordinance against this Santería practice was declared unconstitutional in Church of the Lukumi Babalu Aye v. City of Hialeah. In Judaism, this practice is known as korban (“kor-BAHN”).
ANSWER: animal sacrifice [accept chicken sacrifice; prompt on sacrifice; prompt on killing animals] &lt;Religion&gt;
[10] This sacred language of Santería is a variety of the Yoruba language. The namesake people of this language share their traditional healing practice in Santería rituals.
ANSWER: Lucumí
[10] Name this syncretic Caribbean religion known as the “worship of saints” that is a combination of Roman Catholicism and Yoruban (“YOR-oo-bin”) beliefs.
ANSWER: Santería

443.
ID: 38936  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet N (MIT, UIUC A, and Virginia Tech) | Number: 6
BONUS: In January 2019, this politician declared “Trans rights are civil rights are human rights” during an appearance on a charity stream of <em>Donkey Kong 64</em> run by British YouTube personality Hbomberguy. For 10 points each:
[10] In the general election, Crowley was still on the ballot as the nominee of the Women’s Equality Party and this other New York-based minor left-wing party, despite its executive director Dan Cantor explicitly endorsing Ocasio-Cortez.
ANSWER: Working Families Party [or WFP] &lt;Current Events&gt;
[10] Ocasio-Cortez pulled off a stunning upset in her campaign against this ten-term incumbent, who was at the time the Chair of the House Democratic Caucus.
ANSWER: Joe Crowley [or Joseph Crowley]
[10] Name this democratic socialist representative of New York’s 14th congressional district, the youngest woman ever to serve in Congress.
ANSWER: Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez [or AOC]

444.
ID: 38937  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet N (MIT, UIUC A, and Virginia Tech) | Number: 7
BONUS: Reading this phrase prompts the observation that the only feeling Cleopatra had towards Octavia was jealousy. For 10 points each:
[10] A Room of One’s Own was written by this author of To the Lighthouse and Mrs Dalloway.
ANSWER: Virginia Woolf [or Adeline Virginia Stephen] &lt;British Literature&gt;
[10] The phrase “Chloe liked Olivia” is discussed in this essay, which imagines what would have happened to the hypothetical Judith Shakespeare.
ANSWER: A Room of One’s Own
[10] Name this three-word sentence that exposes the fact that the relationships between fictional women are often very simple, and that fictional women are “almost without exception… shown in their relation to men.”
ANSWER: “Chloe liked Olivia”

445.
ID: 38938  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History British
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet N (MIT, UIUC A, and Virginia Tech) | Number: 8
BONUS: Answer the following about the South Sea Bubble, for 10 points each.
[10] The failure of the South Sea Company led to the pre-eminence of this institution, often called “the old lady of Threadneedle Street.” George Soros was known as the man who “broke” this institution after he short-sold 10 billion dollars in pounds on Black Wednesday.
ANSWER: Bank of England &lt;British History&gt;
[10] This Chancellor of the Exchequer was forced to resign for his role in the South Sea Bubble. This man was a strong supporter of the plan for the South Sea Company to take over the national debt in exchange for government bonds.
ANSWER: John Aislabie (“AYZ-luh-bee”)
[10] One consequence of the South Sea Bubble was this man’s rise to power as the first British Prime Minister.
ANSWER: Robert Walpole, 1st Earl of Orford

446.
ID: 38939  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet N (MIT, UIUC A, and Virginia Tech) | Number: 9
BONUS: These diagrams can be applied to a wider range of species than the similar Orgel diagrams. For 10 points each:
[10] The Tanabe–Sugano diagram for complexes with this number of d electrons does not exist, because the d orbitals are completely filled and thus there are no transitions between them. This is the atomic number of neon.
ANSWER: 10 &lt;Chemistry&gt;
[10] Unlike Orgel diagrams, Tanabe–Sugano diagrams apply to complexes with either a high or a low value for this quantity. A high value for this quantity corresponds to a low field strength, and vice versa.
ANSWER: spin
[10] Name these diagrams used to predict absorption bands in coordination complexes. The x- and y-axes of these diagrams are scaled by the Racah parameter B.
ANSWER: Tanabe–Sugano (“tah-nah-bay soo-gah-no”) diagrams

447.
ID: 38940  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet N (MIT, UIUC A, and Virginia Tech) | Number: 10
BONUS: In the early 1990s, a team of researchers at the University of Pennsylvania used the Brown Corpus to construct one of these entities for American English. For 10 points each:
[10] Corpus linguists often analyze the occurrence of these sets of co-occurring words within a given window of text. Jon Orwant and Will Brockman used the Google Books corpus to develop a program that displays the frequencies of these things over time.
ANSWER: n-grams [accept the Google Books Ngram Viewer; anti-prompt on bigrams, trigrams, etc. by asking “can you be less specific?”] &lt;Social Science&gt;
[10] The Penn Treebank project created the most popular of the namesake “sets” for tagging these linguistic categories, which include nouns, verbs, and adjectives.
ANSWER: parts of speech [or POS; accept part of speech tagging or POST; prompt on lexical categories]
[10] Name these parsed corpora in linguistics that are created by annotating either phrase structures or dependency structures in a body of texts.
ANSWER: treebanks [prompt on corpora or corpus]

448.
ID: 38941  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet N (MIT, UIUC A, and Virginia Tech) | Number: 11
BONUS: One of these institutions named San Diego de Alcalá (“all-kah-LAH”) was built on the land of the Kumeyaay (“koo-mee-eye”) people. For 10 points each:
[10] The Portolà expedition founded this capital of Alta California under Spanish and Mexican rule. John Sloat captured this city in 1846 during the Mexican-American War, claiming California for the United States.
ANSWER: Monterey &lt;American History&gt;
[10] Serra was assisted in his mission-founding exploits by this Spanish governor of California, who led the first exploration up California’s coast and into its interior in 1769 and 1770. San Francisco Bay was first sighted by this man’s expedition.
ANSWER: Gaspar de Portolà [or Gaspar de Portolà y Rovira]
[10] Name these Spanish religious outposts in California, the first of which were founded by Junípero Serra (“hoo-NEE-pay-roh SAIR-ah”).
ANSWER: Spanish missions in California [or misiones]

449.
ID: 38942  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature World
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet N (MIT, UIUC A, and Virginia Tech) | Number: 12
BONUS: In this novel, Carlos realizes that he’s been unwittingly having sex with his sister after Ega tells him of a gift he received from his mother’s friend. For 10 points each:
[10] In 1995, Saramago received this prize, the most important prize given to authors who write in Portuguese. It’s named for the author of an epic poem about Vasco da Gama.
ANSWER: Camões (“kah-MOISH”) Prize [or Prémio Camões; accept Camoens Prize] &lt;European Literature&gt;
[10] Eça de Queiroz is an author from this country. The author of Blindness, José Saramago (“zhoo-ZAY sah-rah-MAH-goo”), is also from this country.
ANSWER: Portugal [or Portuguese Republic; or República Portuguesa]
[10] Name this novel by José Maria de Eça de Queiroz (“zhoo-ZAY mah-REE-ah dee EH-sah dee kay-ROHSH”) about the decline of the title family.
ANSWER: The Maias: Episodes of Romantic Life [or Os Maias: Episódios da Vida Romântica]

450.
ID: 38943  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet N (MIT, UIUC A, and Virginia Tech) | Number: 13
BONUS: One model of this phenomenon finds a particle velocity of diffusivity over the current sheet half thickness, and predicts that the field reverses over a length of two delta. For 10 points each:
[10] Magnetic field lines are “frozen in” to conductive plasma because charged particles undergo this type of motion in a uniform magnetic field due to the Lorentz force. Particles move in circular orbits with angular frequency q times B over m in this type of motion.
ANSWER: cyclotron motion [accept cyclotron orbits; prompt on circular motion or similar descriptions] &lt;Physics&gt;
[10] Magnetic reconnection happens in highly conductive examples of these systems, which are hot ionized gases.
ANSWER: plasma
[10] Name this phenomenon in which the topology of magnetic field lines changes, releasing energy. One form of this process happens faster than predicted by MHD.
ANSWER: magnetic reconnection

451.
ID: 38944  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet N (MIT, UIUC A, and Virginia Tech) | Number: 14
BONUS: The third movement serenade of this piece is in 6/8 time and begins with the tempo marking “Allegro assai” before transitioning to an Allegretto with an English horn solo. For 10 points each:
[10] This musician commissioned Harold in Italy after acquiring a new viola. This man also composed a piece which inspired Franz Liszt’s La Campanella étude.
ANSWER: Niccolò Paganini &lt;Music&gt;
[10] Harold in Italy was written by this French composer of The Damnation of Faust and Symphonie Fantastique.
ANSWER: Hector Berlioz [or Louis-Hector Berlioz]
[10] Name this composition. The soloist in this piece opens with the notes “D, long low B, [pause] C, long low E,” over G major arpeggios in the harp.
ANSWER: Harold in Italy [or Harold en Italie]

452.
ID: 38945  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Mythology | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet N (MIT, UIUC A, and Virginia Tech) | Number: 15
BONUS: The first king of what would become this city was punished in Tartarus by being forced to roll a boulder up a hill for all eternity, and also married Merope, one of the Pleiades. For 10 points each:
[10] Greek heroes making a visit to the underworld are often depicted observing Sisyphus and other criminals suffering in Tartarus. This is the Greek name for the mytheme (“MYTH-eem”) in which heroes journey to the underworld.
ANSWER: katabasis &lt;Mythology&gt;
[10] Sisyphus earned his divine punishment by putting Thanatos, the god of this concept, in chains. Humans who had recently undergone this experience crossed the river Styx in a ferry driven by Charon (“karen”).
ANSWER: death
[10] Name this city first ruled by Sisyphus, who founded its Isthmian Games. While in this city, Jason abandoned his wife Medea to marry its princess, Glauce (“glossy”).
ANSWER: Corinth

453.
ID: 38946  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet N (MIT, UIUC A, and Virginia Tech) | Number: 16
BONUS: This ruler signed the “Eternal Peace” with Khosrau I. For 10 points each:
[10] Justinian’s reign is considered to be part of this two-word historical period from 150 to 750 AD. It was popularized by a 1971 Peter Brown book that discusses this period as the transition between the ancient and medieval worlds.
ANSWER: late antiquity [accept The World of Late Antiquity] &lt;Ancient History&gt;
[10] This historian from Caesarea wrote a “Secret History” of Justinian’s reign, which probably exaggerated or made up many atrocities that Justinian supposedly committed.
ANSWER: Procopius
[10] Name this Byzantine emperor, the husband of Theodora. He put down the Nika Revolts.
ANSWER: Justinian

454.
ID: 38947  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Philosophy | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet N (MIT, UIUC A, and Virginia Tech) | Number: 17
BONUS: In a paper whose title pairs this thesis with “the metaphysics of reduction,” Jaegwon Kim argues that it requires that global psychology be reconceived as a “conjunction of species-restricted psychologies.” For 10 points each:
[10] Empirical arguments for multiple realizability often appeal to developments in computer-based cognitive functioning in this two-word field. John Searle criticized the “strong” form of a thesis named for this concept in his Chinese Room argument.
ANSWER: artificial intelligence [or AI; accept Strong AI] &lt;Philosophy&gt;
[10] The concept of multiple realizability was introduced to the philosophy of mind in a series of articles by this thinker, who used his “Twin Earth” thought experiment to argue for semantic externalism.
ANSWER: Hilary Putnam
[10] Name this thesis which holds that mental states, such as pain, can be instantiated in different kinds of systems.
ANSWER: multiple realizability [or multiple realization thesis]

455.
ID: 38948  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature World
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet N (MIT, UIUC A, and Virginia Tech) | Number: 18
BONUS: A character in this novel is told by his wife that “those who have always won will win again,” which he turns into a campaign slogan. For 10 points each:
[10] The novel ends with the revelation that this character is pregnant, as she sits with the dead body of Esteban Trueba. She is the daughter of Blanca and Pedro Tercero.
ANSWER: Alba Trueba de Satigny &lt;World Literature&gt;
[10] The House of the Spirits is by this Chilean novelist.
ANSWER: Isabel Allende [or Isabel Allende Llona]
[10] Name this novel in which a clairvoyant character predicts the death of Rosa the Beautiful.
ANSWER: The House of the Spirits [or La casa de los espíritus]

456.
ID: 38949  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet N (MIT, UIUC A, and Virginia Tech) | Number: 19
BONUS: The protein katanin severs these structures, which are stabilized by taxanes. For 10 points each:
[10] Lysine-40 on alpha-tubulin can undergo this chemical modification, which stabilizes microtubules. GNATs like GCN5 catalyze the addition of this group to a different protein, a modification recognized by bromodomains.
ANSWER: acetyl [or ethanoyl; or acetylation or ethanoylation] &lt;Biology&gt;
[10] These molecular motors move towards the negative end of microtubules. They link microtubules together in flagella, and they are responsible for retrograde axonal transport.
ANSWER: dyneins (“DYNE-ins”)
[10] Name these cytoskeletal components that are polymers of tubulin arranged in a 13-fold symmetric hollow cylinder. They form the mitotic spindle.
ANSWER: microtubules

457.
ID: 38950  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Audiovisual
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet N (MIT, UIUC A, and Virginia Tech) | Number: 20
BONUS: This character accepts a peace offering of four doubloons from a man who attempted to frame and probably murder him. For 10 points each:
[10] The Commendatore drags Don Giovanni to hell after Don Giovanni had earlier performed this action because Leporello was too frightened to do it himself. The statue bellows out an affirmative “Si” after this proposal.
ANSWER: invites the statue to dinner [or offers him an evening meal; or equivalents; prompt on invites him to his house (or equivalents)] &lt;Other Arts&gt;
[10] Leporello appears in this opera by Mozart that ends with the title nobleman being dragged to hell by a statue of the murdered Commendatore.
ANSWER: Don Giovanni [or Il dissoluto punito; ossia, il Don Giovanni; or The Rake Punished, or Don Giovanni; or The Libertine Punished, or Don Giovanni]
[10] Name this servant who repeatedly punctuates the opening aria “Notte e giorno faticar” (“NOTE-tay ay JOR-no fah-tee-CAR”) with “No no no no no.” This character also details the romantic conquests of his master in the “Catalogue Aria.”
ANSWER: Leporello

458.
ID: 38658  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet A (Penn State A, McGill A, Florida A, and Rutgers B) | Number: 1
BONUS: A poem that begins “The flower that smiles today tomorrow dies” is sometimes published under this title. For 10 points each:
[10] This other poem by Percy Bysshe Shelley addresses the “breath of Autumn’s being,” which it calls “destroyer and preserver.”
ANSWER: “Ode to the West Wind” &lt;British Literature&gt;
[10] Half of Percy Bysshe Shelley’s poem “Mutability” is quoted in this novel by Percy’s wife Mary about a scientist who creates a monstrous creature.
ANSWER: Frankenstein; or, The Modern Prometheus
[10] Name this title of an 1816 poem which declares that “man’s yesterday may ne’er be like his morrow” and that “nought may endure but” the title concept.
ANSWER: “Mutability”

459.
ID: 38659  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet A (Penn State A, McGill A, Florida A, and Rutgers B) | Number: 2
BONUS: An album named for this color opens with the line “I am on a lonely road and I am traveling, traveling, traveling, traveling.” For 10 points each:
[10] Not to be confused with blues, the bluegrass genre is named for the Blue Grass Boys, a band led by this mandolinist and “Father of Bluegrass” until his death in 1996.
ANSWER: Bill Monroe [or William Smith Monroe] &lt;Other Arts&gt;
[10] A standard blues scale flattens the third, the seventh, and this major scale degree. In sonata form, if the exposition starts in a major key, then it usually modulates to the key of this scale degree.
ANSWER: five [or fifth; or dominant]
[10] Name this color that titles an album containing the songs “All I Want” and “A Case of You.” Bill Evans plays piano on the track “So What” from a Miles Davis album with this color in its title.
ANSWER: blue [accept Kind of Blue]

460.
ID: 38660  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet A (Penn State A, McGill A, Florida A, and Rutgers B) | Number: 3
BONUS: Edward Paget put down this event, led by Bindee Tiwari, that led to the death of over 200 non-violent protesters. For 10 points each:
[10] Barrackpore is now part of this modern-day Indian city that was once called Fort William under British rule. In 1756, 164 prisoners of Siraj ud-Daulah were imprisoned in an overcrowded dungeon in this city for three days.
ANSWER: Calcutta [or Kolkata; accept Black Hole of Calcutta] &lt;World History&gt;
[10] The sepoys were employed by this organization that controlled India until the Sepoy Rebellion of 1857.
ANSWER: British East India Company [or Honorable East India Company; accept Company Bahadur or John Company; prompt on East India Company]
[10] Name this revolt of sepoys that occurred in 1824. It was triggered when sepoys were forced to carry their own supplies for the invasion of Burma because of a lack of cattle.
ANSWER: Barrackpore Mutiny

461.
ID: 38661  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature European
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet A (Penn State A, McGill A, Florida A, and Rutgers B) | Number: 4
BONUS: This character notes that “when the doorbell rings, sometimes there is someone, other times there is no one,” settling an argument between Mr. and Mrs. Smith. For 10 points each:
[10] The opening paragraph describing the setting of The Bald Soprano uses this adjective 17 times. The armchair, slippers, pipe, newspaper, and fire used by Mr. Smith are all described by this adjective.
ANSWER: “English” &lt;European Literature&gt;
[10] The Bald Soprano is by this Romanian absurdist playwright. His recurring character Bérenger (“bay-ron-ZHAY”) appears in Rhinoceros.
ANSWER: Eugène Ionesco [or Eugen Ionescu]
[10] Name this character who is revealed to be the lover of the maid Mary. The play in which this man appears, The Bald Soprano, is named for a character whom this man mentions in passing.
ANSWER: the Fire Chief [or le capitaine des pompiers]

462.
ID: 38662  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet A (Penn State A, McGill A, Florida A, and Rutgers B) | Number: 5
BONUS: This quantity is frequently used by investors to evaluate the profitability of corporate investments. For 10 points each:
[10] Modigliani introduced the concept of a “non-inflationary rate” of this phenomenon, below which inflation accelerates. This phenomenon’s “rate” is calculated by dividing the number of people without a job by the size of the labor force.
ANSWER: unemployment [or Non-Inflationary Rate of Unemployment; or unemployment rate] &lt;Social Science&gt;
[10] A theorem developed by Merton Miller and this economist suggests that in the absence of taxes and bankruptcy costs, the weighted average cost of capital is unaffected by a company’s sources of borrowing. This economist posited that people stabilize their consumption over time in his “life-cycle hypothesis.”
ANSWER: Franco Modigliani (“mo-deel-YAH-nee”) [or the Modigliani–Miller theorem]
[10] Name this quantity that is generally calculated using the weighted average of the rates that a company expects to pay in order to finance its stock and long-term debt.
ANSWER: weighted average cost of capital [or WACC]

463.
ID: 38663  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet A (Penn State A, McGill A, Florida A, and Rutgers B) | Number: 6
BONUS: Answer the following about single-cell RNA sequencing, in which cells are individually suspended in droplets using microfluidics, for 10 points each.
[10] Single-cell technologies rely on adding one of these short sequences to each template from a given cell or sample. These sequences allow multiplexing several samples together in a single next-generation sequencing run.
ANSWER: barcodes [or index or indices or UMI or unique molecular identifiers] &lt;Biology&gt;
[10] RainDance Technologies has created a “droplet digital” version of this technique, which is even more accurate than its real-time variant. The classical version of this technique uses taq polymerase (“TACK puh-LIM-uh-rays”) to amplify a segment of DNA.
ANSWER: PCR [or polymerase chain reaction]
[10] Before microfluidics, single cells were isolated using FACS (“fax” or “F-A-C-S”), which is a variant of this technique in which cells are labeled with fluorescent dyes, put in a stream, and characterized by their surface markers or other properties.
ANSWER: flow cytometry

464.
ID: 38664  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet A (Penn State A, McGill A, Florida A, and Rutgers B) | Number: 7
BONUS: More people subsist on products derived from this domesticated animal than any other. For 10 points each:
[10] Mozzarella cheese is usually sold suspended in salt water, which is referred to by this term. Cucumbers are turned into pickles either by soaking in vinegar or fermenting in this liquid.
ANSWER: brine &lt;Other Academic&gt;
[10] Buffalo milk is used to prepare this dish, a hollow ball of mozzarella filled with either stracciatella (“strah-chah-TELL-ah”) and cream or butter and sugar.
ANSWER: burrata
[10] Name this animal. The milk of its Italian Mediterranean breed is traditionally used to make mozzarella cheese.
ANSWER: water buffalo [or bufala; or Bubalus bubalis; do not accept or prompt on “bison”]

465.
ID: 38665  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet A (Penn State A, McGill A, Florida A, and Rutgers B) | Number: 8
BONUS: A 2018 Vulture article that attempted to assemble a “21st-century literary canon” named this novel the best of the 21st century. For 10 points each:
[10] Patrick deWitt’s The Sisters Brothers is a novel in this genre, which is exemplified by Zane Grey’s Riders of the Purple Sage and most of Louis L’Amour’s books.
ANSWER: Western [prompt on historical fiction] &lt;American Literature&gt;
[10] Helen DeWitt followed up The Last Samurai with a novel named for these objects. A story from Melville’s Piazza Tales is named for a man who sells these objects, whom the narrator dubs “Mr. Jupiter Tonans.”
ANSWER: lightning rods [accept “The Lightning-Rod Man”]
[10] Name this novel about Sibylla and her child prodigy son Ludo, who repeatedly watch an Akira Kurosawa film as Ludo searches for his father’s identity.
ANSWER: The Last Samurai (by Helen DeWitt)

466.
ID: 38666  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet A (Penn State A, McGill A, Florida A, and Rutgers B) | Number: 9
BONUS: This book advises you to begin learning the title activity around age six or seven, and that people older than that should have their fingers pulled in all directions to loosen them up before starting. For 10 points each:
[10] This Italian Baroque composer wrote a set of 30 essercizi (“ess-air-CHEET-see”), or “exercises,” which were among the 555 sonatas that he wrote for keyboard in total. His father Alessandro founded the Neapolitan school of opera.
ANSWER: Domenico Scarlatti &lt;Music&gt;
[10] J. S. Bach wrote a set of thirty pieces of this type as keyboard exercises for his students. In the collection, these pieces came in two- or three-part varieties, the latter of which were also called sinfonias.
ANSWER: inventions [accept two-part inventions or three-part inventions; prompt on sinfonias]
[10] Name this instructional treatise from the early 1700s that contains a prescriptive table of two dozen ornaments. It ends with eight preludes and an allemande in D minor for the learner to practice on the title instrument.
ANSWER: The Art of Playing the Harpsichord [or L’art de toucher le clavecin] (by François Couperin)

467.
ID: 38667  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet A (Penn State A, McGill A, Florida A, and Rutgers B) | Number: 10
BONUS: These devices can be accidentally quenched if the field that they produce becomes too high or changes too fast. For 10 points each:
[10] The ITER prototype tokamak will use superconducting magnets made from alloys of this transition metal with tin and titanium. Most superconducting nanowire single-photon detectors use the nitride of this metal with atomic number 41.
ANSWER: niobium [or Nb] &lt;Physics&gt;
[10] The helium-cooled superconducting magnets in this particle accelerator suffered a quench when it started up in 2008. In July 2012, the ATLAS and CMS experiments at this accelerator first observed a Higgs boson candidate.
ANSWER: Large Hadron Collider [or LHC; prompt on CERN]
[10] Name these devices that require significant cooling. Typical materials used in these devices have a critical field of around 15 teslas, but a YBCO-based prototype at the National High Magnetic Field Laboratory can produce a field of 32 teslas.
ANSWER: superconducting magnets [prompt on magnets or electromagnets; prompt on type II superconductors by asking “what are the superconductors being used for?”]

468.
ID: 38668  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet A (Penn State A, McGill A, Florida A, and Rutgers B) | Number: 11
BONUS: Mary Musgrove served as an interpreter between this man and Tomochichi, the chief of the Yamacraw Indians. For 10 points each:
[10] The Battle of Bloody Marsh was part of this larger conflict between England and Spain. In a larger battle in this conflict, the Spanish repulsed an English amphibious attack on the port city of Cartagena de Indias (“car-tah-HAY-nah day EEN-dee-ahss”).
ANSWER: War of Jenkins’ Ear [do not accept or prompt on “War of the Austrian Succession”] &lt;American History&gt;
[10] Because of Oglethorpe’s victory at the Battle of Bloody Marsh, this colony that he founded as an alternative to debtor’s prisons would stay safe from Spanish raids from nearby Florida.
ANSWER: Georgia
[10] Name this man whose forces defeated the Spanish at the Battle of Bloody Marsh. Methodism founders John and Charles Wesley traveled to a colony that this man founded at his request.
ANSWER: James Oglethorpe

469.
ID: 38669  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet A (Penn State A, McGill A, Florida A, and Rutgers B) | Number: 12
BONUS: According to legend, this ruler from the House of Palaeologus was turned to marble and buried so that one day he could return and reconquer his city. For 10 points each:
[10] Constantine’s niece Zoe Palaeologus married a ruler with this name who confronted the Golden Horde at the Great Stand on the Ugra. That ruler’s son of the same name was given the name Grozny, or “the Terrible.”
ANSWER: Ivan [accept Ivan III; accept Ivan IV; accept Ivan the Great; accept Ivan the Terrible; accept Ivan Grozny] &lt;European History&gt;
[10] Before becoming emperor, Constantine ruled this despotate that encompassed much of the Peloponnese peninsula whose capital was Mystras.
ANSWER: Despotate of the Morea
[10] Name this last Byzantine emperor. Rather than being turned to marble, he probably actually died fighting the invading armies of Mehmed II.
ANSWER: Constantine XI (“the eleventh”) [or Constantine XI Dragases; prompt on Constantine]

470.
ID: 38670  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Religion | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet A (Penn State A, McGill A, Florida A, and Rutgers B) | Number: 13
BONUS: Answer the following about shintai, or earthly objects that a kami may reside in, for 10 points each.
[10] The world’s largest shintai is probably this landmark, a dormant volcano that is Japan’s highest mountain.
ANSWER: Mount Fuji [or Fujisan or Fujiyama] &lt;Religion&gt;
[10] Members of this profession who achieve the elite yokozuna ranking become living shintai, and therefore always wear a heavy ceremonial rope around their waists.
ANSWER: sumo wrestlers [or rikishi or sumotori; prompt on wrestlers]
[10] These comma-shaped jade beads were often used as shintai in ceremonies. The Yata mirror, the sword Kusanagi, and one of these objects together form Japan’s imperial regalia.
ANSWER: magatama [prompt on jewels, talismans, pendants, etc. by asking “what’s the Japanese term?”]

471.
ID: 38671  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet A (Penn State A, McGill A, Florida A, and Rutgers B) | Number: 14
BONUS: The first section of <em>Brideshead Revisited</em> is titled “Et in [this place] Ego,” or “Even in [this place], there am I.” For 10 points each:
[10] Northrop Frye’s Green World theory concerns the role of idyllic natural settings in Shakespeare’s work, such as this location to which Duke Senior is exiled in As You Like It.
ANSWER: Forest of Arden [prompt on forest] &lt;Other Literature&gt;
[10] This two-word Latin phrase means “charming place,” and is used in literary criticism to refer to an idyllic (“eye-DILL-ick”) natural setting.
ANSWER: locus amoenus (“ah-MOY-nuss”)
[10] Name this term for a pastoral utopia. It titles a Tom Stoppard play that is set both in the early 1800s and the 1990s, as well as a pastoral romance by Sir Philip Sidney.
ANSWER: Arcadia [accept “Et in Arcadia Ego”]

472.
ID: 38672  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Other
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet A (Penn State A, McGill A, Florida A, and Rutgers B) | Number: 15
BONUS: The Juan de Fuca example of these structures is currently subducting underneath the North American one at the Cascadia fault. For 10 points each:
[10] The fossil record of this fern that went extinct in the Triassic period supports the theory of continental drift. Fossils from this genus, which is named for the Greek for “tongue,” are found across South America, Africa, and Australia, the continental fragments of Gondwana.
ANSWER: Glossopteris &lt;Other Science (Earth Science)&gt;
[10] Plate tectonics provides a mechanism for continental drift, which was theorized by this German meteorologist who coined the name “Pangaea” for the ancient supercontinent.
ANSWER: Alfred Wegener (“VAY-guh-ner”) [or Alfred Lothar Wegener]
[10] Name these sections of Earth’s crust that shift around above the mantle.
ANSWER: tectonic plates

473.
ID: 38673  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet A (Penn State A, McGill A, Florida A, and Rutgers B) | Number: 16
BONUS: Answer the following about coupling reactions, for 10 points each.
[10] Ei-ichi Negishi, Richard F. Heck, and Akira Suzuki jointly won the 2010 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for their work in cross-coupling reactions that are catalyzed by this transition metal whose atomic number is 46.
ANSWER: palladium [or Pd] &lt;Chemistry&gt;
[10] This cross-coupling reaction involves an organozinc compound, and must be performed in an oxygen- and water-free environment.
ANSWER: Negishi (“neh-GEE-shee”) coupling reaction
[10] Many cross-coupling reactions involve reacting an organometallic compound with a compound that contains carbon bonded to one of these elements, which comprise group 17 of the periodic table. They include iodine and chlorine.
ANSWER: halogens

474.
ID: 38674  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet A (Penn State A, McGill A, Florida A, and Rutgers B) | Number: 17
BONUS: While being dragged away, a commander of this location reportedly kicked a pastry chef in the groin, prompting a mob to kill him. For 10 points each:
[10] Along with Lafayette, Jean Sylvain Bailly (“zhahn seel-VAN bah-YEE”), who held this position, was held responsible for the Champ de Mars massacre. This position was abolished from 1871 to 1977, which is when Jacques Chirac was chosen to fill this position.
ANSWER: mayor of Paris [or Maire de Paris; or provost of Paris] &lt;European History&gt;
[10] The day after the storming of the Bastille, this man was appointed head of the National Guard to try to restore order. This man’s popularity took a downturn after he ordered his troops to fire on a large crowd gathered on the Champ de Mars (“shom duh marce”).
ANSWER: Gilbert du Motier, Marquis de Lafayette [accept either underlined portion]
[10] Name this armory whose storming on July 14, 1789, set the French Revolution into motion.
ANSWER: the Bastille

475.
ID: 38675  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet A (Penn State A, McGill A, Florida A, and Rutgers B) | Number: 18
BONUS: A black man emerges from the middle of a vertically oriented one of these objects in a Benny Andrews painting. For 10 points each:
[10] In 1989, George H. W. Bush criticized the work “What Is the Proper Way to Display a US Flag?” by Dread Scott as “disgraceful” while it was being displayed at the Art Institute of this Midwestern city.
ANSWER: Chicago [or The Art Institute of Chicago] &lt;Painting&gt;
[10] Harlem-based artist David Hammons designed an African-American Flag based on the American flag, but using these three colors instead. The Pan-African flag consists of these three colors, which are also the colors of the candles in a Kwanzaa kinara.
ANSWER: red, green, AND black [accept in any order]
[10] Name these objects, one of which includes a narrative about Memphis Cooly and another of which is shown “bleeding” in two artworks by Faith Ringgold.
ANSWER: American flags [or United States flags or US flags; prompt on flags]

476.
ID: 38676  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Mythology | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet A (Penn State A, McGill A, Florida A, and Rutgers B) | Number: 19
BONUS: Holders of this position would don a war garb that included flayed skin and a rattle staff in emulation of Xipe Totec (“SHEEP-uh TOH-tek”). For 10 points each:
[10] Members of the Aztec pantheon such as Huitzilopochtli are depicted as full-color drawings in the calendar section of this codex, which is named after a building in Paris.
ANSWER: Codex Borbonicus &lt;Mythology&gt;
[10] Residents of Tenochtitlan were particularly enamored with this deity, the city’s patron. His mother was impregnated by a ball of feathers, and his weapon of choice was a flaming atlatl (“AHT-lah-tull”).
ANSWER: Huitzilopochtli (“weet-see-loh-POACHED-lee”) [accept translations like “left-handed hummingbird” or “southern hummingbird”]
[10] Name this administrative position whose holders like Montezuma II often oversaw human sacrifice ceremonies in Tenochtitlan.
ANSWER: king of the Aztec [or tlatoani; or emperor of the Aztec; or king/emperor of the Mexica]

477.
ID: 38677  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Philosophy | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet A (Penn State A, McGill A, Florida A, and Rutgers B) | Number: 20
BONUS: This man was nearly put to death for suggesting that the sun was a red hot lump of metal before Pericles intervened on his behalf. For 10 points each:
[10] An incomplete work by this thinker ends by arguing that Anaxagoras’s nous configures people in the form of a game. He described how the “dying Socrates” became a Greek ideal in a book that outlines a dichotomy between the Dionysian and the Apollonian.
ANSWER: Friedrich Nietzsche [or Friedrich Wilhelm Nietzsche] &lt;Philosophy&gt;
[10] Meletus accuses this man of believing that the sun and moon are rocks instead of gods, to which this man responds “Do you suppose you are accusing Anaxagoras?” in Plato’s Apology, in which this man is found guilty.
ANSWER: Socrates
[10] Name this philosopher and physicist from Clazomenae who correctly surmised how eclipses work. He introduced the concept of nous (“noose”), or the cosmic mind.
ANSWER: Anaxagoras (“an-uck-SAG-uh-russ”) of Clazomenae

478.
ID: 38678  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet A (Penn State A, McGill A, Florida A, and Rutgers B) | Number: 21
BONUS: This quantity is useful for studying external forces in systems with links, cables, and other moving parts. For 10 points each:
[10] The Lagrangian is a function of the “generalized” form of these parameters that specify the state of the system. The derivative of the action with respect to these quantities is set to zero in Hamilton’s principle.
ANSWER: generalized coordinates &lt;Physics&gt;
[10] The virtual displacement that minimizes virtual work minimizes the action in this formulation of classical mechanics. This formulation extremizes the integral of a quantity defined as kinetic energy minus potential energy.
ANSWER: Lagrangian mechanics [accept Joseph Louis Lagrange]
[10] Name this scalar quantity, with units of joules (“jewels”), that occurs along a namesake displacement when the action is minimized. According to its namesake principle, it must equal zero for systems in equilibrium.
ANSWER: virtual work [or principle of virtual work; prompt on work]

479.
ID: 38679  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet B (Wright State, Johns Hopkins A, and UNC A) | Number: 1
BONUS: A friar attempts to reform this character after he pursues the newly rich Mistress Ursula in a William Kenrick play titled for this character’s “wedding.” For 10 points each:
[10] This “foul mouth’dst rogue in England” is the one who informs Falstaff of the death of Henry IV. This husband of Mistress Quickly is beaten up by the Welsh officer Fluellen (“floo-ELL-in”), who forces him to eat a raw leek.
ANSWER: Ancient Pistol &lt;British Literature&gt;
[10] Mistress Quickly declares that Falstaff is in “Arthur’s bosom” after his death in this Shakespeare play, whose title king rallies his troops to fight the French in the St. Crispin’s Day Speech.
ANSWER: Henry V
[10] Name this character who compares Judge Shallow to a “cheese paring” and a carved radish. He and his cronies frequent the Boar’s Head Inn.
ANSWER: Sir John Falstaff [accept either underlined portion]

480.
ID: 38680  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Philosophy | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet B (Wright State, Johns Hopkins A, and UNC A) | Number: 2
BONUS: This philosophical position rejects J. L. Mackie’s “error theory,” which itself argues that all claims about the morality of a particular action are necessarily false. For 10 points each:
[10] Moore’s work in moral realism is often viewed as an extension of this Scottish Enlightenment philosopher’s articulation of the “is–ought” problem in his A Treatise of Human Nature.
ANSWER: David Hume &lt;Philosophy&gt;
[10] This philosopher advanced a non-naturalist theory of moral realism, arguing that moral features of the world exist but are not reducible to non-moral features, in his 1903 work Principia Ethica.
ANSWER: G. E. Moore [or George Edward Moore]
[10] Name this position advocated by philosophers such as Peter Railton and Russ Shafer-Landau, which holds that moral claims can, in fact, be true.
ANSWER: moral realism [or moral objectivism; accept word forms such as moral realist or moral objectivist; prompt on realism or objectivism]

481.
ID: 38681  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet B (Wright State, Johns Hopkins A, and UNC A) | Number: 3
BONUS: One of the organisms engaged in these associations physically grows into the other in its arbuscular variant. For 10 points each:
[10] This other form of symbiosis between fungi and plants closely resembles mycorrhizae, but occurs when the plant derives its nutrients from the fungi rather than through photosynthesis.
ANSWER: mycoheterotrophy [or mycotrophy or mycorrhizal cheaters or mycorrhizal cheating] &lt;Biology&gt;
[10] Mycorrhizae form between the roots of a plant and an organism of this kingdom, who unusually have chitin (“KITE-in”) in their cell walls. Mycology is the study of these organisms.
ANSWER: fungi [or funguses]
[10] Name this type of mutualistic structure. Hyphal coils called pelotons are produced in one type of this structure which is necessary for orchids to grow.
ANSWER: mycorrhizae (“my-ko-RYE-zee”)

482.
ID: 38682  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet B (Wright State, Johns Hopkins A, and UNC A) | Number: 4
BONUS: Supposedly, the only person to survive a disastrous retreat from this city was the surgeon William Brydon. For 10 points each:
[10] In 1919, this other British officer in the Anglo-Afghan Wars ordered troops to fire into a crowd of Indians gathered in the Jallianwala Bagh public garden.
ANSWER: Reginald Dyer [or Reginald Edward Harry Dyer] &lt;British History&gt;
[10] The massacre of Elphinstone’s army was part of the Great Game, a struggle for control over Central Asia between Britain and this other imperial power.
ANSWER: Russian Empire
[10] Name this city. Lord Elphinstone’s army was massacred by the Wazir Akbar Khan’s forces while fleeing this city in 1842.
ANSWER: Kabul

483.
ID: 38683  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet B (Wright State, Johns Hopkins A, and UNC A) | Number: 5
BONUS: This song concludes with the lines “To turn, turn will be our delight, till by turning, turning we come ’round right.” For 10 point each:
[10] A quartet of Anthony McGill, Itzhak Perlman, Yo-Yo Ma, and Gabriela Montero performed this composer’s Air and Simple Gifts at Barack Obama’s first Inauguration in 2009. Dale Clevenger premiered this composer’s horn concerto in 2003.
ANSWER: John Williams [or John Towner Williams] &lt;Music&gt;
[10] Five variations on the Shaker hymn “Simple Gifts” can be heard towards the end of the suite from Appalachian Spring, a ballet by this American composer.
ANSWER: Aaron Copland
[10] Name this song written by Joseph Brackett in 1848. A clarinet solo introduces this song in A-flat major in a section marked doppio movimento from a piece written for a ballet 96 years later.
ANSWER: “Simple Gifts” [prompt on Shaker melody or Shaker hymn or Shaker tune; accept “’Tis the Gift to Be Simple”]

484.
ID: 38684  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Mythology | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet B (Wright State, Johns Hopkins A, and UNC A) | Number: 6
BONUS: These beings rescued their mother and sister from pirates, and they stormed Olympus in an attempt to take Artemis and Hera as wives. For 10 points each:
[10] In several accounts, Otus and Ephialtes used this other peak as a stepping stone in their attempt to reach the gods. This mountain is also where Chiron (“KYE-ron”) lived and taught several mythical heroes.
ANSWER: Mount Pelion &lt;Mythology&gt;
[10] Otus and Ephialtes had earlier managed to trap Ares in one of these objects. One of these items often mistranslated as being a box was owned by Pandora and contained all of the world’s evil.
ANSWER: jar [or pithos; or urn]
[10] Name these figures, a pair of giant twin sons of Poseidon. They killed each other in an early friendly-fire incident by both throwing spears intended to hit Artemis in the form of a doe.
ANSWER: Otus and Ephialtes [or the Aloadae]

485.
ID: 38685  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet B (Wright State, Johns Hopkins A, and UNC A) | Number: 7
BONUS: The number of electrons that these species donate is quantified by their denticity or their hapticity, depending on the type of compound they form. For 10 points each:
[10] This technique can be used to measure ligand affinity and determine binding mechanisms by measuring the temperature change in a sample cell when ligand is slowly added. It is especially useful for studying ligand binding to large biomolecules.
ANSWER: isothermal titration calorimetry [or ITC] &lt;Chemistry&gt;
[10] This series orders ligands by their ability to induce d-orbital splitting; it starts with pi-donors like I-minus and extends to strong-field pi-acceptors like CN-minus.
ANSWER: spectrochemical series
[10] Name these chemical species that complex to central metal ions in coordination compounds.
ANSWER: ligands (“LIG-unds”)

486.
ID: 38686  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet B (Wright State, Johns Hopkins A, and UNC A) | Number: 8
BONUS: The speaker of a poem in this collection describes a “frequent and swift flash of eyes offering [him] love” in the title “City of Orgies.” For 10 points each:
[10] Whitman declares “The great city is that which has the greatest man or woman” in a poem titled “Song of” this type of weapon, which it describes as “shapely, naked, wan (“wahn”).”
ANSWER: broad-axe [prompt on axe] &lt;American Literature&gt;
[10] This author included poems like “Song of Myself” and “Crossing Brooklyn Ferry” in his collection Leaves of Grass.
ANSWER: Walt Whitman [or Walter Whitman]
[10] Name this collection. A poem in this collection calls a “mast-hemm’d” city a “stately and admirable” sight and begins “Flood-tide below me! I watch you face to face.”
ANSWER: Leaves of Grass

487.
ID: 38687  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet B (Wright State, Johns Hopkins A, and UNC A) | Number: 9
BONUS: Inhabitants of villages near Sanjiang (“san-jyong”) in modern-day Zhejiang (“juh-jyong”) Province were forbidden from stepping on dry land for supporting the loser of this battle. For 10 points each:
[10] The emperors of the Ming Dynasty, including its founder Yuanzhang (“y’wen-jong”), had this familial name. A later general with this family name was the first commander-in-chief of the People’s Liberation Army.
ANSWER: Zhu (“joo”) [accept Zhu De] &lt;World History&gt;
[10] The Hongwu Emperor was the first emperor of this dynasty, whose Yongle (“yong-luh”) Emperor sent the naval expeditions of Zheng He (“jung huh”).
ANSWER: Ming Dynasty
[10] Name this large naval battle in 1363 during the Red Turban Rebellion. The future Hongwu Emperor defeated the forces of Chen Youliang (“chun yo-lyong”) in this battle.
ANSWER: Battle of Lake Poyang

488.
ID: 38688  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet B (Wright State, Johns Hopkins A, and UNC A) | Number: 10
BONUS: François Le Moyne (“luh MWANN”) committed suicide a day after finishing a painting in which this figure saves another figure from Falsehood and Envy. For 10 points each:
[10] Venus, Cupid, Folly and Time is the best-known work by this Italian Mannerist painter.
ANSWER: Agnolo Bronzino [or Agnolo di Cosimo] &lt;Painting&gt;
[10] When Time isn’t holding a scythe, he is often shown with one of these time-measuring devices, such as the one behind him in the painting Venus, Cupid, Folly and Time.
ANSWER: hourglass [or sandglass, sand timer, sand clock, or clepsammia; prompt on clock or timer]
[10] Name this winged allegorical figure that lifts a nude woman in the final painting of Peter Paul Rubens’s Marie de’ Medici cycle, in which Marie reconciles with her son Louis XIII.
ANSWER: Time [accept Saturn; accept Time Saving Truth From Falsehood and Envy]

489.
ID: 38689  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature World
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet B (Wright State, Johns Hopkins A, and UNC A) | Number: 11
BONUS: <em>Foreign-language answer acceptable.</em> A book named after one of these places includes the story “It’s Because We’re So Poor,” which is about a family who loses a cow in a flood. For 10 points each:
[10] This Colombian author allegedly read a gifted copy of Pedro Páramo twice in one night and claimed that he could recite it forwards and backwards. Pedro Páramo influenced his novel One Hundred Years of Solitude.
ANSWER: Gabriel García Márquez [prompt on partial answers] &lt;World Literature&gt;
[10] This author of The Burning Plain wrote about Juan Preciado’s time in the ghost-inhabited town of Comala in his novel Pedro Páramo.
ANSWER: Juan Rulfo [or Juan Nepomuceno Carlos Pérez Rulfo Vizcaíno]
[10] Name this type of place that titles a collection containing the stories “They Gave Us the Land” and “Tell Them Not to Kill Me.” A character whose last name is a word for this type of place loves Susana San Juan.
ANSWER: plains [or llanos; or páramos] (Páramo is a Spanish word for a barren plain.)

490.
ID: 38690  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet B (Wright State, Johns Hopkins A, and UNC A) | Number: 12
BONUS: The main female protagonist of <em>Hiroshima, mon amour</em> (“mon ah-MOOR”) is revealed to have endured this historical punishment. For 10 points each:
[10] Post-war reprisals also included the execution of this editor of the anti-Semitic newspaper Je suis partout (“zhuh swee par-TOO”). He became a cause célèbre (“cause suh-LEB-ruh”) among French intellectuals, with Paul Valéry and Albert Camus (“all-BAIR kah-MOO”) signing a petition to commute his sentence, but was executed anyway.
ANSWER: Robert Brasillach (“ro-BAIR bra-zee-YAHK”) &lt;European History&gt;
[10] Women who engaged in “horizontal collaboration” slept with Nazis during their occupation of this country, which was partially ruled by the collaborationist Vichy (“VEE-shee”) regime.
ANSWER: France [or the French Republic; or République française]
[10] Name this type of public humiliation that women who engaged in “horizontal collaboration” with Nazi soldiers often underwent in the postwar period.
ANSWER: shaving their heads [or haircut; accept any answer involving cutting off hair]

491.
ID: 38691  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet B (Wright State, Johns Hopkins A, and UNC A) | Number: 13
BONUS: In this sociologist’s best-known study, black applicants with no criminal record were shown to be around as likely to get job offers as white applicants with a felony conviction. For 10 points each:
[10] Pager’s work also notes that limited employment opportunities are a key predictor for this phenomenon of convicted criminals committing additional crimes once they’ve been released from prison.
ANSWER: recidivism [accept word forms, such as recidivate or recidivating; accept the revolving door] &lt;Social Science&gt;
[10] Pager based her study on an experiment by Schwartz and Skolnick that measured criminal records as a “legal” form of this sociological concept. A book by Erving Goffman titled for this concept divides it into categories such as “tribal” and “blemishes of individual character.”
ANSWER: stigma [accept legal stigma or social stigma; do not accept any other terms]
[10] Name this recently deceased sociologist who included the results of that study in her article “The Mark of a Criminal Record.”
ANSWER: Devah Pager [or Devah Iwalani Pager]

492.
ID: 38692  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Other
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet B (Wright State, Johns Hopkins A, and UNC A) | Number: 14
BONUS: Alexander Liberman’s sculpture <em>Argo</em>, which consists of several steel cylinders painted white, can be found on the grounds of this institution. For 10 points each:
[10] Dustin Shuler’s Spindle, which consists of eight cars impaled on a spike, can be found in this state. Anish Kapoor’s Cloud Gate is in Millennium Park in this Midwestern state’s largest city.
ANSWER: Illinois &lt;Other Arts&gt;
[10] The MAM is also home to a Dirk Skreber (“SKRAY-ber”) sculpture of one of these objects smashed around a pole. An imitation of an English landmark in Nebraska is composed of a ring of these objects spray-painted gray.
ANSWER: cars [accept synonyms like automobiles or vehicles; accept Carhenge]
[10] Name this American museum. Its Quadracci Pavilion, which takes the form of a ship with a movable brise soleil (“breeze so-LAY”) made of 72 steel fins, was designed by Santiago Calatrava.
ANSWER: Milwaukee Art Museum [or the MAM]

493.
ID: 38693  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Other
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet B (Wright State, Johns Hopkins A, and UNC A) | Number: 15
BONUS: The lower three vertices of the QAPF diagram correspond to three types of these minerals. For 10 points each:
[10] The feldspar orthoclase is found near the bottom of Bowen’s reaction series, indicating a low value for this quantity, which is shown on the vertical axis of Bowen’s reaction series.
ANSWER: crystallization temperature [accept descriptive answers indicating the temperature at which a mineral forms from a melt; prompt on temperature] &lt;Other Science (Earth Science)&gt;
[10] Plagioclase feldspars make up the continuous branch of this geologist’s reaction series, starting with calcium-rich and proceeding down to sodium-rich feldspars. Its discontinuous branch includes magnesium- and iron-rich minerals like olivine.
ANSWER: Norman Bowen [or Norman Levi Bowen; accept Bowen’s reaction series]
[10] Name this group of aluminosilicate minerals that form many different solid solution minerals. Examples of these minerals that contain barium include hyalophane (“hy-AL-oh-fane”) and celsian (“SELL-see-in”).
ANSWER: feldspars

494.
ID: 38694  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet B (Wright State, Johns Hopkins A, and UNC A) | Number: 16
BONUS: Conspirators in this scandal gave themselves nicknames like “The Wolfpack” and “The Cool Kids,” and it was the subject of 27 separate NCIS investigations that were closed without taking action. For 10 points each:
[10] Several higher-level naval officers, including the amusingly-named Rear Admiral David Pimpo, were censured by this current Secretary of the Navy, who shares his first and last name with the white supremacist president of the National Policy Institute.
ANSWER: Richard Spencer [accept Richard Vaughn Spencer or Richard Bertrand Spencer] &lt;Current Events&gt;
[10] “Fat Leonard” Francis’s partners in crime included dozens of uniformed officers of this branch of the US armed forces, many of whom were attached to the Seventh Fleet.
ANSWER: United States Navy
[10] Identify this ongoing scandal that involves numerous bribes paid by the namesake overweight chairman of Glenn Defense Marine Asia.
ANSWER: Fat Leonard scandal

495.
ID: 38695  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Religion | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet B (Wright State, Johns Hopkins A, and UNC A) | Number: 17
BONUS: In the Tanakh, people brought the “first fruits” to the Temple of Jerusalem on this day. For 10 points each:
[10] This book, the second of the Five Scrolls, is read during services on Shavuot. It is set in the time of the Book of Judges, and immediately follows it in most versions of the Old Testament.
ANSWER: Book of Ruth [or Megilat Rut] &lt;Religion&gt;
[10] On Shavuot, Jews traditionally eat blintzes and other pastries containing this ingredient.
ANSWER: cheese [or dairy or milk or milchig]
[10] Name this holiday that celebrates the revelation of the Torah to Moses. The introduction of coffee to the Ottoman Empire may have inspired the tradition of all-night Torah study on this day.
ANSWER: Shavuot (“shah-voo-OAT”) [accept Feast of Weeks or Pentecost]

496.
ID: 38696  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet B (Wright State, Johns Hopkins A, and UNC A) | Number: 18
BONUS: Luttinger’s theorem states that these systems have a zero-temperature momentum-space volume independent of interaction strength. For 10 points each:
[10] Fermi liquids form a Fermi surface in which the occupation function is discontinuous due to this principle. This principle requires that no two electrons be in the same state.
ANSWER: Pauli exclusion principle [prompt on partial answer] &lt;Physics&gt;
[10] Fermi liquid theory relies on non-interacting states changing gradually as the interaction is turned on in this manner. According to a theorem named for this condition, a quantum system remains in its instantaneous ground state if its Hamiltonian changes sufficiently slowly.
ANSWER: adiabatically [accept word forms like adiabaticity; accept adiabatic theorem]
[10] Identify these systems that approximate interacting electron systems as a system of weakly-interacting quasiparticles with renormalized mass. These systems approximate normal electrons in a metal at low enough temperature.
ANSWER: Fermi liquids [or Landau–Fermi liquids]

497.
ID: 38697  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet B (Wright State, Johns Hopkins A, and UNC A) | Number: 19
BONUS: Heather Ann Thompson’s book <em>Blood in the Water</em> criticized this man for ordering Russell G. Oswald to use tear gas against rioting prisoners in Attica State Prison. For 10 points each:
[10] Neal Cassady served two years in San Quentin for possession of this substance, whose prohibition was the target of Harry Anslinger’s scare campaign. It was demonized by the 1936 film Reefer Madness.
ANSWER: cannabis [or marijuana; or pot; or weed; or ganja; or bud] &lt;American History&gt;
[10] The Attica riots were sparked by the death of Black Panther George Jackson at this infamous prison in Marin County, California. Other notable inmates at this prison included Eldridge Cleaver and Sirhan Sirhan.
ANSWER: San Quentin State Prison
[10] Name this governor of New York who said that he felt “what Truman must have felt when he decided to drop the A-bomb” when he ordered the forceful retaking of Attica.
ANSWER: Nelson Rockefeller [or Nelson Aldrich Rockefeller]

498.
ID: 38698  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature European
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet B (Wright State, Johns Hopkins A, and UNC A) | Number: 20
BONUS: The speaker of this poem sees a creature that cried “homesick for his fair native lake: Rain, when will you fall? Thunder, when will you roll?” For 10 points each:
[10] In a poem from Les Fleurs du Mal, Baudelaire warns this person of Ennui, who “dreams of scaffolds as he smokes his hookah pipe.” Baudelaire calls this person a “hypocrite” and “my fellow, my brother.”
ANSWER: the reader [accept “Au Lecteur”] &lt;European Literature&gt;
[10] “The Swan” appears in the “Parisian Scenes” section of this poet’s Les Fleurs du Mal (“lay flurr doo MALL”).
ANSWER: Charles Baudelaire [or Charles Pierre Baudelaire]
[10] Name this poem dedicated to Victor Hugo about a bird “escaped from his cage.” It opens “Andromache, I think of you!”
ANSWER: “The Swan” [or “Le Cygne”]

499.
ID: 38699  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet B (Wright State, Johns Hopkins A, and UNC A) | Number: 21
BONUS: After being attacked by the rival Chanka people, this ruler is said to have called on the sun god Inti to turn stones into <em>pururauca</em> warriors to defend his city. For 10 points each:
[10] According to some sources, Pachacuti began the construction of these storehouses, which would hold crops, meat, wool, and weapons, among other commodities. These structures not only helped to prevent famines in the empire, but also served as reminders to the people of their obligations to the empire.
ANSWER: qullqas [or collcas] &lt;World History&gt;
[10] This Incan site is thought by archaeologists to have been built as an estate for Pachacuti. This site was rediscovered after Hiram Bingham’s 1911 Yale Peruvian expedition.
ANSWER: Machu Picchu [or Machu Pikchu]
[10] Name this son of Viracocha who transformed the Kingdom of Cuzco into the Incan Empire in the 15th century.
ANSWER: Pachacuti [or Pachakutiq Inka Yupanki; or Pachacútec]

500.
ID: 38700  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet C (MSU A, NYU B, UCLA A, and Virginia A) | Number: 1
BONUS: A 1999 book by Arend Lijphart (“AH-runt LYPE-hart”) argues that “consensus” types of these systems outperform “majoritarian” varieties. For 10 points each:
[10] Lijphart also distinguishes between “congruent” and “incongruent” forms of this two-tiered system of governance, the latter of which involves homogenous states organized under a central government, such as in India.
ANSWER: federalism [or federalist; prompt on mixed or compound government; do not accept “confederalist”] &lt;Social Science&gt;
[10] In his book Patterns of Democracy, Lijphart argues that this country represented the paradigmatic majoritarian democracy until it voted in 1993 to adopt a mixed-member proportional system after a successful campaign by the Electoral Reform Coalition.
ANSWER: New Zealand [or Aotearoa]
[10] Name these systems. Initiatives and referenda are often used in these systems’ “direct” form.
ANSWER: democracies [or democracy; accept consensus democracy, majoritarian democracy, or direct democracy; prompt on republics or parliamentary systems]

501.
ID: 38701  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet C (MSU A, NYU B, UCLA A, and Virginia A) | Number: 2
BONUS: The scholar Lilian Randall argues that artistic depictions of this animal, which became popular in the late 13th century, were intended to criticize the Lombards as cowardly and unchivalrous. For 10 points each:
[10] The Duke of Berry’s book of hours is perhaps best-known for a calendar section containing twelve miniatures corresponding to the “labors” performed by peasants during each of these periods of time.
ANSWER: months [accept Labors of the Months] &lt;Painting&gt;
[10] The knights-fighting-snails motif shows up in all sorts of medieval texts, including these devotional illuminated manuscripts designed for personal use. A particularly luxurious one of them was produced for the Duke of Berry by the Limbourg Brothers.
ANSWER: books of hours [accept Très Riches Heures du Duc de Berry]
[10] Name this animal that was frequently and improbably shown in oversized form being attacked by armored knights in the margins of medieval manuscripts.
ANSWER: snails [or slugs]

502.
ID: 38702  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet C (MSU A, NYU B, UCLA A, and Virginia A) | Number: 3
BONUS: Linus Pauling and Émile Zuckerkandl speculated about using hemoglobin as one of these figurative devices in 1962, and “relaxed” versions of this method allow different mutation rates for different lineages. For 10 points each:
[10] Relaxed molecular clock methods were invented by Joseph Felsenstein, who also designed a popular package to draw these constructs. These constructs are usually inferred using the maximum parsimony method.
ANSWER: phylogenetic trees [or evolutionary trees; or phylogeny; or phylogenies; prompt on trees, trees of life, cladograms, dendrograms, phylograms, or chronograms] &lt;Biology&gt;
[10] The DNA in this organelle is used as a molecular clock within humans, and it can be used to trace matrilineal descent back to a namesake “Eve.” This organelle contains cytochrome c, which is another popular molecular clock.
ANSWER: mitochondria [or mitochondrion]
[10] Name this figurative device that uses the differences between two related DNA sequences in different organisms to predict when those organisms diverged.
ANSWER: molecular clock [or gene clock; or evolutionary clock]

503.
ID: 38703  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet C (MSU A, NYU B, UCLA A, and Virginia A) | Number: 4
BONUS: In the <em>Poetic Edda</em>, a character based on this man is fed the flesh of his two sons and murdered by Gudrun in retaliation for his betrayal and execution of her brother Gunnar. For 10 points each:
[10] Krampus is sometimes considered an “evil” version of Saint Nicholas, since Krampusnacht occurs just a few weeks before this holiday during which Saint Nicholas rewards good children with presents.
ANSWER: Christmas Day [or Nativity; or Noël] &lt;Mythology&gt;
[10] Another terrifying character from Hungarian mythology is this horned figure also common in tales from across Central Europe. He puts naughty children in his bag and, depending on the legend, either drowns them, eats them, or takes them to Hell.
ANSWER: Krampus (“KRAHM-puss”)
[10] Name this historical figure. In Hungarian mythology, this man is destined to become the most powerful ruler on Earth after he discovers the sword Isten Kardja (“EESH-ten KARD-yah”).
ANSWER: Attila the Hun

504.
ID: 38704  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet C (MSU A, NYU B, UCLA A, and Virginia A) | Number: 5
BONUS: Name some poets who wrote about Charlie Chaplin, for 10 points each.
[10] The image of “your mother” watching “Chaplin dance in youth” appears in “Kaddish,” a poem by this Beat poet who wrote “Howl.”
ANSWER: Allen Ginsberg [or Irwin Allen Ginsberg] &lt;American Literature&gt;
[10] This author of the poem “Chaplin Upon the Cliff, Dining Alone” wrote a short story in which a man dreams that he’s in a theater watching a movie about his parents’ courtship.
ANSWER: Delmore Schwartz (That story is “In Dreams Begin Responsibilities.”)
[10] This poet wrote about how “we make our meek adjustments” in the first line of his poem “Chaplinesque” from the collection White Buildings.
ANSWER: Hart Crane [or Harold Hart Crane]

505.
ID: 38705  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet C (MSU A, NYU B, UCLA A, and Virginia A) | Number: 6
BONUS: Answer the following about French popes, for 10 points each.
[10] This first French pope introduced the abacus and decimal system to Europe. He also crowned Stephen of Hungary on Christmas Day, 1000 AD.
ANSWER: Sylvester II [prompt on Sylvester] &lt;European History&gt;
[10] Another French pope, Urban II, whipped up support for this military initiative by saying “God wills it!” at the Council of Clermont.
ANSWER: First Crusade [prompt on the Crusades]
[10] No Frenchman has been elected pope since Gregory XI (“the eleventh”), the last of a line of seven French popes who presided from this city. Clement V moved the seat of the papacy to this city from Rome, where it remained during the “Babylonian captivity.”
ANSWER: Avignon [accept Avignon papacy]

506.
ID: 38706  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2019 ACF Regionals | Round: Packet C (MSU A, NYU B, UCLA A, and Virginia A) | Number: 7
BONUS: A composer from this country used techniques like bowed vibraphone, “circular” harp playing, and glissandi in a piece meant to evoke the winter sky that was adapted from the middle movement of her piece <em>Orion</em>. For 10 points each:
[10] In a 1976 animated film parody from this country, Sibelius’s Valse triste (“vahlss TREEST”) plays as a cat wanders the ruins of a large house. Following the success of Finlandia, Sibelius started his Symphony No. 2 while vacationing in this country.
ANSWER: Italy [or Italian Republic; or Repubblica Italiana] (The film is Allegro Non Troppo.) &lt;Music&gt;
[10] Finnish composer Esa-Pekka Salonen dedicated a piece of this type to Leila Josefowicz (“LEE-luh jo-SEFF-oh-witz”). Donald Tovey described the third movement of Sibelius’s only piece of this type as a “polonaise for polar bears.”
ANSWER: violin concerto [prompt on concerto or VC]
[10] Name this European country home to Kaija Saariaho (“KYE-yah SAH-ree-ah-hoh”) and the composer of the Lemminkäinen Suite, Jean Sibelius (“zhahn sih-BAY-lee-us”).
ANSWER: Finland [or Suomi]

507.
ID: 38355  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 01 | Number: 1
BONUS: In order to prevent starvation during an Arctic expedition, this explorer ate his shoe leather and thus was billed in the press as “the man who ate his boots.” For 10 points each:
[10] John Rae was an employee of this company who interviewed Inuit near the area of the wrecks. This company, which traded its point blankets for Native Americans’ furs, had exclusive rights to Rupert’s Land.
ANSWER: Hudson’s Bay Company [or HBC; or Compagnie de la Baie d’Hudson; or The Bay; or La Baie; do not accept “Hudson Bay Company” or “Hudson Bay’s Company”]
[10] Name this British explorer who disappeared in 1847 along with his ships the Erebus and the Terror during an attempt to find the Northwest Passage. John Rae later accused his expedition of resorting to cannibalism.
ANSWER: John Franklin
[10] John Franklin’s last voyage took place during the reign of this queen, who spent many years of her life wearing black and mourning the death of her husband, Prince Albert.
ANSWER: Victoria &lt;AP, European History&gt;

508.
ID: 38357  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 01 | Number: 3
BONUS: During his tenure as the New York Philharmonic’s Music Director, he removed every chair from the concert hall and held so-called Rug Concerts. For 10 points each:
[10] In 1967, dissatisfied with this musical genre’s stagnation, Boulez suggested the “elegant, inexpensive” solution of blowing up all venues for performing it, but a decade later, he controversially conducted a set of pieces in this genre at the Jahrhundertring (“yarr-HOON-dirt-ring”), or the centenary Bayreuth (“BYE-royt”) Festival.
ANSWER: opera [or opera houses; accept operas by Richard Wagner or music-dramas or Oper or Musikdrama] &lt;CK, Classical Music&gt;
[10] During his time in New York, Boulez gave a celebrated performance that popularized this American composer’s serialist work Connotations. He composed Fanfare for the Common Man and Appalachian Spring.
ANSWER: Aaron Copland
[10] Name this French conductor who alienated New York concertgoers and was replaced with Zubin Mehta (“ZOO-bin MEH-ta”). In the 1970s, he founded the Ensemble intercontemporain (“ANN-tair-con-tom-po-RAN”) for playing avant-garde chamber music and an underground music research institute.
ANSWER: Pierre Boulez (“boo-LEZZ”) (The institute is IRCAM.)

509.
ID: 38358  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 01 | Number: 4
BONUS: Answer the following about the application of the root locus technique in control theory, for 10 points each.
[10] The root locus aids in determining if a closed-loop system has this property for a given gain. The gain and phase margins quantify this property, which is determined by the number of encirclements of a Nyquist plot.
ANSWER: stability [or stable; do not accept “instability” or “unstable”] &lt;AP, Other Science: Engineering&gt;
[10] The root locus plots the poles of a system’s transfer function for a range of its scaling factor, known by this term. This term, which can describe the voltage output-input ratio of an amplifier, quantifies the different types of feedback in a PID (“P-I-D”) loop.
ANSWER: gain [or open-loop gain; prompt on K]
[10] The root locus of a feedback system is plotted on the s-plane, a plane used to represent these numbers. These numbers can be represented as a real part plus an imaginary part.
ANSWER: complex numbers [prompt on C]

510.
ID: 38359  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History British
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 01 | Number: 5
BONUS: Historian E. M. Rose argued that Simon de Novers helped spread rumors about the death of a boy with this name to free himself from being punished for killing a Jewish banker. For 10 points each:
[10] In 1290, anti-Semitism in England culminated with this monarch’s expulsion of the Jews. This monarch, who was nicknamed after his long legs, defeated William Wallace at the Battle of Falkirk.
ANSWER: Edward I [or Edward Longshanks] &lt;AE, European History&gt;
[10] The death of William of Norwich is the first recorded instance of this anti-Semitic myth, which held that Jews ritually murder Christian boys on Passover to make matzah.
ANSWER: blood libel [or blood accusation]
[10] Give the name of that English boy from Norwich, who was venerated as a saint after he was allegedly tortured and murdered by Jews in 1144. The contemporary Archbishop of York, who also had this name, was deposed from his see following his quarrels with the Cistercians.
ANSWER: William [accept William of Norwich or William of York]

511.
ID: 38360  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 01 | Number: 6
BONUS: This character, who is nicknamed “Broom” because the aides make him sweep the halls, speaks for the first time in years when another character gives him a package of Juicy Fruit. For 10 points each:
[10] Throughout the novel, Bromden believes that fog is being blown into the ward by this imaginary entity that he believes punishes those who don’t adhere to rigid social norms.
ANSWER: the Combine &lt;CK, American Literature&gt;
[10] Chief Bromden narrates this Ken Kesey novel that centers on a psychiatric ward ruled by the tyrannical Nurse Ratched (“RATCH-id”).
ANSWER: One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest
[10] Name this “Chronic” who, at the end of the novel he narrates, euthanizes a lobotomized Randall McMurphy.
ANSWER: Chief Bromden [accept Big Chief Bromden; prompt on Chief or Chief Broom]

512.
ID: 38361  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 01 | Number: 7
BONUS: This animal-rights activist blew the whistle against Edward Taub, a psychologist who severed the nerves of the “Silver Spring monkeys” and subjected them to shocks to research neuroplasticity. For 10 points each:
[10] The Sea Shepherd Conservation Society has frequently clashed with whalers from this East Asian country, which withdrew from the IWC in December 2018 and declared its intent to resume commercial whaling.
ANSWER: Japan [or Nippon] &lt;AP, Other&gt;
[10] Pacheco served as a crew member with the Sea Shepherd Conservation Society, which rammed the Sierra in 1979 to thwart this activity. The IWC regulates this activity and allows it for ostensibly scientific purposes.
ANSWER: whaling [or hunting whales; or killing whales; or equivalents]
[10] Name this animal rights activist who co-founded PETA with the British activist Ingrid Newkirk in 1980.
ANSWER: Alex Pacheco [or Alexander Fernando Pacheco]

513.
ID: 38362  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 01 | Number: 8
BONUS: These systems have significant cross-linking and often form in concentrated polymer solutions. For 10 points each:
[10] Hydrogels with this property are used as scaffolds for tissue engineering. The polymers in hydrogels with this property sometimes have large dangling side chains that can readily form new bonds.
ANSWER: self-healing hydrogels &lt;GR, Chemistry&gt;
[10] Gels, along with sols and emulsions, are examples of this class of mixtures with small particles of one phase dispersed in another phase. Unlike suspensions, these mixtures do not settle over time.
ANSWER: colloids
[10] Name these materials that contain a fluid in a solid network. Examples of these materials composed of acrylamide (“uh-KRILL-uh-myde”) allow molecules to differentially drift in an applied electric field depending on their charge.
ANSWER: gels [accept polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis; prompt on, but DO NOT REVEAL, colloids]

514.
ID: 38363  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 01 | Number: 9
BONUS: Answer the following about Hindu pilgrimages to the Venkateshwara (“vayn-kuh-TAYSH-wuh-ruh”) Temple on the hills of Tirupati (“TIH-roo-puh-tee”), India, for 10 points each.
[10] After the pilgrims are mollified by eating the sweet laddus offered to the god as prasāda (“pruh-SAH-dah”), they undergo tonsure, a ritual cutting of this stuff. Sikhs are forbidden from cutting this stuff, so they cover it with a dastar.
ANSWER: hair [accept more specific types of hair like beard, mustache, etc.] &lt;AP, Religion&gt;
[10] After viewing the idol, pilgrims put some of this stuff into a container called a hundi. This stuff, which in Hindu tradition is sacred to Kubera (“koo-BAY-ruh”) and Lakshmi (“LUKSH-mee”), is used by devotees for the practice of dāna (“DAH-nuh”).
ANSWER: money [or currency; or cash; accept specific forms of money like coins or bills; accept dollars or rupees; accept slang terms for money; accept wealth]
[10] After a tortuous 5-hour climb to the temple, pilgrims only glimpse the god’s idol for a few seconds before the crowd jostles them away. Name the Sanskrit word used to refer to idols and other physical images of gods.
ANSWER: mūrti (“MOOR-thee”) [or mūrthy; or vigraha; or pratima]

515.
ID: 38365  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 01 | Number: 11
BONUS: Under the pen name “Lonely Orphan Girl,” this journalist wrote a letter to the editor in response to a column titled “What Girls Are Good For,” earning her a job offer. For 10 points each:
[10] The competition between the New York World and this Hearst-owned paper gave rise to the tactics of “yellow journalism,” so named because this paper poached the Yellow Kid cartoon series from the New York World.
ANSWER: New York Journal-America [or New York Morning Journal; prompt on Journal] &lt;JH, American History&gt;
[10] Bly published her exposé in the New York World, a paper owned by this publisher and rival of William Randolph Hearst. In his will, he established a namesake award for journalism, letters, and music.
ANSWER: Joseph Pulitzer
[10] Name this reporter who faked insanity to infiltrate the asylum on Blackwell Island, an experience that she detailed in Ten Days in a Mad House.
ANSWER: Nellie Bly [or Elizabeth Jane Cochrane]

516.
ID: 38366  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature European
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 01 | Number: 12
BONUS: While locked in a bathroom, a character in this novel fantasizes about destroying his captor’s stuffed owl. For 10 points each:
[10] A deaf-mute porter of this name is forced to drown his beloved pet dog Mumu in an anti-serfdom story by Ivan Turgenev (“tur-GAIN-yeff”). Another peasant of this name spends hours propping up the title character’s legs in Tolstoy’s Death of Ivan Ilyich.
ANSWER: Gerasim (“gyeh-ruh-SEEM”) &lt;JH, European Literature&gt;
[10] This other Russian author wrote about Gurov’s affair with Anna Sergeyevna in “The Lady with a Dog.” The pistol in his play Uncle Vanya provides a literal example of a dramatic principle known as this author’s “gun.”
ANSWER: Anton Chekhov [accept Chekhov’s gun]
[10] Name this Mikhail Bulgakov novel in which the surgeon Philip Philipovich Preobrazhensky surgically implants a human pituitary gland in Sharik, causing him to become the man Polygraph Polygraphovich.
ANSWER: The Heart of a Dog [or Sobachye syerdtsye; accept translations with any combination of articles]

517.
ID: 38367  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 01 | Number: 13
BONUS: This standard prevented the plaintiffs from arguing that the Endangered Species Act ought to be applied abroad in <em>Lujan v. Defenders of Wildlife</em>. For 10 points each:
[10] The standard established in Flast v. Cohen grants people who do this action the standing to sue the government over the appropriation of funds. People who do this action fill out the 1040 form provided by the IRS.
ANSWER: pay taxes [or taxpayers or file taxes or equivalents; accept specific variations like pay income tax] &lt;CK, Social Science&gt;
[10] This Supreme Court justice famously argued that the standing doctrine ought to be expanded to allow inanimate objects, like trees, to bring lawsuits in his dissenting opinion in Sierra Club v. Morton.
ANSWER: William O. Douglas
[10] Name this legal standard that requires a plaintiff to establish injury-in-fact, causation, and redressability in order to bring a case.
ANSWER: standing [or locus standi]

518.
ID: 38368  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 01 | Number: 14
BONUS: The Baker–Campbell–Hausdorff formula expresses the log of a product of exponentials in terms of nested applications of this operation. For 10 points each:
[10] Wavefunctions represented with respect to conjugate variables like position and momentum are related to each other by this operation, which decomposes a function into frequency components.
ANSWER: Fourier transform [prompt on Fourier decomposition by asking “what is the name for the operation?”; do not accept or prompt on “Fourier series”] &lt;GR, Physics&gt;
[10] The generalization of this principle in quantum mechanics relates the product of standard deviations of two operators to their commutator. This principle specifically applies to position and momentum.
ANSWER: Heisenberg uncertainty principle [prompt on partial answer]
[10] Name this operation, the difference between two operator products. When it is nonzero for two operators, the operators cannot be simultaneously diagonalized.
ANSWER: commutator

519.
ID: 38369  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Math
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 01 | Number: 15
BONUS: In his dissertation, Leon Henkin introduced a namesake “construction” to prove that first-order logic has this property. For 10 points each:
[10] Most provability logics are not strongly complete because they include an axiom named for this logician and sometimes Gödel, which states: if it is provable that the provability of p implies p, then it is provable that p.
ANSWER: Martin Löb [accept Löb’s theorem or Gödel–Löb axiom or Gödel–Löb logic] &lt;CK, Philosophy&gt;
[10] Gödel’s second incompleteness theorem states that a sufficiently strong formal system cannot prove that it has this property. A formal system with this property contains no contradictions.
ANSWER: consistency [or word forms like consistent]
[10] Name this property of a formal system that can prove every valid formula. Kurt Gödel (“GUR-tle”) proved that first-order logic has this property and also that higher-order formal systems lack this property.
ANSWER: completeness

520.
ID: 38370  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 01 | Number: 16
BONUS: Following the end of apartheid, a public holiday celebrating this battle called the Day of the Vow was replaced with the Day of Reconciliation. For 10 points each:
[10] The Jameson Raid led to the resignation of this diamond magnate as the British Cape Colony’s prime minister. In his will, he established a namesake scholarship to study at Oxford.
ANSWER: Cecil Rhodes [or Cecil John Rhodes; accept Rhodes Scholarship] &lt;CK, World History&gt;
[10] The Voortrekkers left the Cape Colony and established two independent republics, Transvaal and the Orange Free State, which were annexed by the British after this war, which had been preceded by the Jameson Raid.
ANSWER: Second Boer War [or Anglo-Boer War or South African War]
[10] Name this 1838 battle that saw Andries Pretorius lead a small group of Voortrekkers (“FOR-trekkers”) to victory over ten thousand Zulu warriors.
ANSWER: Battle of Blood River

521.
ID: 38371  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 01 | Number: 17
BONUS: This poem ends with the image of “A four-foot box, a foot for every year.” For 10 points each:
[10] Heaney’s collection Opened Ground also contains this poem that describes “palms sticky as Bluebeard’s.” This poem describes the discovery of “a rat-grey fungus” and ends “Each year I hoped they’d keep, knew they would not.”
ANSWER: “Blackberry-Picking” &lt;JH, British Literature&gt;
[10] This Irish poet of “Mid-Term Break” also translated Beowulf and wrote the lines “Between my finger and my thumb / The squat pen rests; snug as a gun” in “Digging,” part of his collection the Death of the Naturalist.
ANSWER: Seamus Heaney (“SHAY-muss HEE-nee”)
[10] Name this poem in which the narrator returns to his home from college to attend his younger brother’s funeral.
ANSWER: “Mid-Term Break”

522.
ID: 38372  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 01 | Number: 18
BONUS: A group of artists in this city whose members underwent drunken initiation rites at the “Temple of Bacchus” were known as the Bentvueghels (“bent-FEW-khulls”), or “Birds of a Feather.” For 10 points each:
[10] Poussin portrayed Romulus ordering the title abduction, or “rape,” of this group. Jacques-Louis David (“dah-VEED”) depicted a woman standing with her arms outstretched between soldiers in a painting of this group’s “intervention.”
ANSWER: Sabine women [accept Abduction of the Sabine Women or The Rape of the Sabine Women or The Intervention of the Sabine Women] &lt;JH, Painting &amp; Sculpture&gt;
[10] Salvator Rosa categorized Pieter van Laer’s Bamboccianti (“BAHM-bo-CHAHN-tee”) group as low-life painters in his Satire on Painting, much preferring the style of this French Baroque artist of Et in Arcadia Ego.
ANSWER: Nicolas Poussin (“nee-ko-LAH poo-SANN”)
[10] Name this city where a man nicknamed “the ugly doll,” Pieter van Laer, led a group of genre painters. Utrecht-born painters such as Gerrit van Honthorst developed their characteristic style in this city.
ANSWER: Rome [or Roma]

523.
ID: 38373  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Mythology | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 01 | Number: 19
BONUS: Ragnar Lothbrok, the legendary pillager of England, touched the lives of many in Norse mythology. For 10 points each:
[10] The Ragnarsdrapa, a skaldic poem that may have been composed in Ragnar’s honor, contains the story of this god’s battle with Jormungandr during a fishing trip. This wielder of Mjölnir once disguised himself as Freyja.
ANSWER: Thor &lt;JS, Mythology&gt;
[10] Ragnar’s third wife, Aslaug, was the daughter of this hero, who hid her in a harp. This hero owned the horse Grani, and his sword Gram was sharp enough to cut through an anvil.
ANSWER: Sigurd [prompt on Siegfried]
[10] Ragnar’s son Ivar the Boneless executed his father’s killer in this manner, in which the ribs are severed from the spine and the lungs pulled out of the victim’s back. This form of execution was used as a method of sacrifice to Odin.
ANSWER: blood eagle [or blóðugr örn; accept any answer with both blood and eagle; prompt on eagle]

524.
ID: 38374  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 01 | Number: 20
BONUS: This pigment primarily absorbs light at 680 nanometers in dimers in photosystem II (“two”), which contains both its a and b forms.
[10] These yellow-orange pigments are not involved directly in the light-dependent reactions of photosynthesis and primarily exist to protect cells from blue and violet light.
ANSWER: carotenoids &lt;GR, Biology&gt;
[10] This manganese-and-calcium-containing protein complex in photosystem II causes the oxidation of water molecules.
ANSWER: oxygen evolving complex [or OEC]
[10] Name this family of pigments based on porphyrin rings holding a central magnesium atom. So-called antenna complexes in these molecules help transfer energy from light to reaction centers.
ANSWER: chlorophyll [accept chlorophyll a or chlorophyll b]

525.
ID: 38375  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 02 | Number: 1
BONUS: During this war, an Irish immigrant named Jennie Hodgers took the name of Albert D. Cashier and served as an infantryman, continuing to live as a man after this war. For 10 points each:
[10] This woman became the first, and so far, only female Medal of Honor recipient for serving as a Union surgeon. After the war, her preference for men’s clothing led her to be arrested several times for impersonating a man.
ANSWER: Mary Walker [or Mary Edward Walker] &lt;AE, American History&gt;
[10] During the Civil War, this woman earned the nickname “Angel of the Battlefield” for her work in bringing supplies to wounded soldiers at Antietam and elsewhere. This woman founded the American Red Cross in 1881.
ANSWER: Clara Barton [or Clarissa Harlowe Barton]
[10] Name this war in which a number of women served in combat roles in disguise as men, such as Loreta Velazquez, who was exposed after being wounded by an exploding shell at the Battle of Shiloh.
ANSWER: American Civil War [or War Between the States; accept War of Northern Aggression]

526.
ID: 38376  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 02 | Number: 2
BONUS: One of these particles that spontaneously breaks down due to the Higgs mechanism is named for ’t Hooft (“ut HOHFT”) and Polyakov. For 10 points each:
[10] The ’t Hooft–Polyakov monopole is a topological version of this type of wave that does not change shape during propagation. The Korteweg–de Vries equation for waves in shallow water has these waves as solutions.
ANSWER: solitons [or solitary waves; do not accept or prompt on “stationary waves” or “standing waves”] &lt;VS, Physics&gt;
[10] Monopoles catalyze the decay of these particles in the Callan–Rubakov effect. These hadrons have a net electric charge, and the strong force holds them together with neutrons in atomic nuclei.
ANSWER: protons
[10] Name these particles that are equivalent to dyons with no electrical charge. Two of these particles are connected by hypothetical solenoid-like Dirac strings.
ANSWER: magnetic monopoles

527.
ID: 38378  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Audiovisual
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 02 | Number: 4
BONUS: In this ballet’s “Kingdom of the Shades” scene, 24 dancers in white tutus enter the stage from a ramp, zigzagging in single file, performing a series of 39 arabesques. For 10 points each:
[10] Petipa sent Tchaikovsky detailed specifications for the music for this classical ballet. The Lilac Fairy puts a 100-year spell on Princess Aurora after four princes court her on her 16th birthday in this ballet’s “Rose Adagio.”
ANSWER: The Sleeping Beauty [or Spyashaya krasavitsa] &lt;WC, Other Arts&gt;
[10] La Bayadère was originally choreographed by this French-born ballet master of the Russian Imperial Ballet. He collaborated with Lev Ivanov on The Nutcracker.
ANSWER: Marius Petipa
[10] Name this ballet set to music by Ludwig Minkus in which the warrior Solor has his vision of the shades after Nikia dies from the bite of a poisonous snake hidden in a basket of flowers.
ANSWER: La Bayadère (“bah-yah-DAIR”) [or The Temple Dancer or Bayaderka]

528.
ID: 38379  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 02 | Number: 5
BONUS: This poem describes a “sea-worm” as “grotesque, slimed, dumb, indifferent.” For 10 points each:
[10] This poet said to have predicted his death by shipwreck with the lines “My spirit’s bark is driven, / Far from the shore” in his poem “Adonais” (“ad-oh-NAY-iss”). He also wrote “Ode to the West Wind,” “To a Skylark,” and “Ozymandias.”
ANSWER: Percy Bysshe Shelley &lt;JH, British Literature&gt;
[10] This poet used his trademark “sprung rhythm” technique in his poem about the “Wreck of the Deutschland (“DOYTCH-lont”),” which is dedicated “To the happy memory of five Franciscan Nuns.”
ANSWER: Gerard Manley Hopkins
[10] Name this Thomas Hardy poem set “In a solitude of the sea / Deep from human vanity.” Its lines are arranged to form the shape of an ocean liner’s prow in reference to its subject matter, the sinking of the Titanic.
ANSWER: “The Convergence of the Twain”

529.
ID: 38381  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 02 | Number: 7
BONUS: This monarch set up a private army called the Force Publique that terrorized the inhabitants of his colony by cutting off the hands of workers who failed to meet rubber collection quotas. For 10 points each:
[10] In establishing control of the Congo Free State, Leopold II clashed with this Arab trader of slaves and ivory, whom he attempted to co-opt with an appointment as the governor of the Stanley Falls district.
ANSWER: Tippu Tip [or Tippu Tib or Muhammad bin Hamid] &lt;AE, European History&gt;
[10] Leopold II was the king of this country, whose government took over the Congo Free State in 1908. This country granted independence to the Congo in 1960.
ANSWER: Belgium [or Kingdom of Belgium]
[10] Name this monarch who ruled the Congo Free State as his private property. This monarch hired Henry Morton Stanley to help establish his rule in the Congo Free State.
ANSWER: Leopold II

530.
ID: 38383  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Mythology | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 02 | Number: 9
BONUS: During the festival of a god known as “the Night Drinker,” worshippers would wear the product of this action for twenty days to symbolize the growth of new crops. For 10 points each:
[10] The Golden Bough also discusses the flaying of this satyr, which he underwent at the hands of Apollo after foolishly challenging the god to a music contest.
ANSWER: Marsyas (“MAR-see-us”) &lt;JS, Mythology&gt;
[10] James Frazer’s The Golden Bough (“bao”) claims that a personification of Chicomecōātl (“chee-ko-may-KO-ah-tull”), the goddess of this crop, was flayed during an Aztec fall festival. This crop was one of the “three sisters,” along with squash and beans.
ANSWER: corn [or maize]
[10] Identify this action undergone by the Aztec god Xipe Totec (“SHEEP-uh TOH-tek”) to give food to humans.
ANSWER: flaying [accept skinning; accept any answer that indicates skin being removed from the body until it is read]

531.
ID: 38384  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 02 | Number: 10
BONUS: A painting in which this person is depicted covered in jewels is discussed in a Cynthia Burlingham book titled for its “Strange Magic.” For 10 points each:
[10] Huysmans’s À rebours also describes several other symbolist artworks, including drawings in this medium by Odilon Redon. The namesake material of this medium is produced by burning wood in airless kilns.
ANSWER: charcoal &lt;JL, Painting &amp; Sculpture&gt;
[10] The artist of The Apparition, Gustave Moreau, was part of this loosely-defined art movement of the 19th century. Artists from this movement, such as Arnold Böcklin and Odilon Redon, often used mystical and dreamlike imagery.
ANSWER: symbolism [or word forms]
[10] Name this woman who is depicted pointing at a glowing, levitating head in The Apparition, a painting described in detail in Joris-Karl Huysmans’s (“weese-MONS’s”) novel À rebours (“ah ruh-BOOR”).
ANSWER: Salomé

532.
ID: 38386  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 02 | Number: 12
BONUS: In 1662, this leader sent the Dominican missionary Vittorio Riccio to Manila as an envoy to demand that the governor of the Philippines should pay tribute to him. For 10 points each:
[10] Taiwan may have been the location of an expedition sent to Liúqiú (“l’yoh-ch’yoh”) by Emperor Yáng, the second emperor of this dynasty. The Grand Canal was constructed during this brief dynasty.
ANSWER: Suí (“sway”) Dynasty &lt;AE, World History&gt;
[10] Koxinga established Chinese control over this island, which became the destination of Chiang Kai-Shek and the remnants of the KMT following their defeat by the Communists in the Chinese Civil War.
ANSWER: Taiwan [or Formosa]
[10] Name this Chinese pirate and Ming-dynasty loyalist who captured Fort Zeelandia from the Dutch East India Company and established the kingdom of Dōngníng.
ANSWER: Koxinga (“coke-SING-ah”) [or Coxinga; or Guóxìngyé or Zhѐng Chénggōng]

533.
ID: 38387  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Philosophy | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 02 | Number: 13
BONUS: This philosopher distinguished between “allographic” art, which allows for multiple instantiations of the same artwork, and “autographic” art, which does not. For 10 points each:
[10] Kendall Walton and Nelson Goodman both worked in this subfield of philosophy that is concerned with the nature of art.
ANSWER: aesthetics &lt;CK, Philosophy&gt;
[10] Kendall Walton developed a representational theory of art in a book whose title compares this concept to “make-believe.” This concept is defined as the imitation of nature by art in Aristotle’s Poetics.
ANSWER: mimesis [or Mimesis as Make-Believe: On the Foundations of the Representational Arts]
[10] Name this analytic philosopher who analyzed art as a “symbol system” in his Languages of Art.
ANSWER: Nelson Goodman

534.
ID: 38388  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 02 | Number: 14
BONUS: This political party was founded by Umberto Bossi, who used the slogan, “Roma ladrona,” or “thieving Romans!” For 10 points each:
[10] In 1994, the Lega Nord under Umberto Bossi joined a coalition with the Forza Italia party of this Italian politician, whose many controversies include soliciting sex from underage prostitutes at “bunga bunga” parties.
ANSWER: Silvio Berlusconi &lt;WC, Other&gt;
[10] The Lega Nord is headed by this politician, who serves as Deputy Prime Minister along with Luigi Di Maio of the Five Star Movement. As Interior Minister, he refused to allow entry for the refugee rescue ship Aquarius.
ANSWER: Matteo Salvini
[10] Name this right-wing populist political party that governs Italy in a coalition of Eurosceptics (“euro-skeptics”) with the Five Star Movement. This political party once emphasized the regionalist ideology of “Padanian nationalism.”
ANSWER: Lega Nord [or Northern League or LN or Lega Nord per l’Indipendenza della Padania; or il Carroccio]

535.
ID: 38389  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature World
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 02 | Number: 15
BONUS: In a novel by this author, the protagonist disassociates from her body by a process she calls “doubling” during her mother’s weekly examination of her virginity. For 10 points each:
[10] After losing his virginity to Ybón (“ee-BONE”), the title character of Junot Diaz’s (“JOO-noh DEE-azz’s”) novel The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao is taken to one of these settings by the henchmen of Ybón’s boyfriend. A “golden mongoose” guides Oscar’s mother out of this sort of place, where Anabelle works in Danticat’s The Farming of Bones.
ANSWER: cane fields [accept sugarcane fields or sugar plantations; prompt on plantations, farms, or fields] &lt;JH, World/Other Literature&gt;
[10] This author wrote a novella in which a bride is returned on her wedding night because she is not a virgin, titled A Chronicle of a Death Foretold. He also wrote One Hundred Years of Solitude.
ANSWER: Gabriel García Márquez [prompt on partial answer]
[10] Name this Haitian-American author of a novel in which Sophie uses a pestle to break her hymen before leaving her mother; that novel is Breath, Eyes, Memory.
ANSWER: Edwidge Danticat (“ed-WEEJ don-tee-KAH”)

536.
ID: 38390  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 02 | Number: 16
BONUS: Molecules with this property include a ring of resonance bonds. For 10 points each:
[10] Substituent groups are called directing groups when they influence the position where EAS reactions take place. Deactivating groups, which slow the rate of reaction, act as directors to this position. Nitro and cyano groups are directors to this position.
ANSWER: meta position &lt;GR, Chemistry&gt;
[10] In these Lewis acid-catalyzed reactions, a substituent group attached to an aromatic ring is exchanged, leaving the pi bonds of the resonance structure intact. Reactions of this type can produce chlorobenzene or arenes from benzene.
ANSWER: electrophilic aromatic substitution [or EAS]
[10] Name this property of planar molecules that obey Hückel’s rule, including benzene.
ANSWER: aromaticity [or word forms like aromatic]

537.
ID: 38393  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 02 | Number: 19
BONUS: This monarch died while on crusade due to a plague while he was invading Tunisia, but he had previously managed to capture Damietta during the Seventh Crusade. For 10 points each:
[10] The Treaty of Paris put an end to a crusade against members of this Christian heresy in southern France. This heresy professed dualism and divided its members into the “perfects” and the “believers.”
ANSWER: Cathars [or Catharism or Cathari; or Albigensians or Albigensianism or Albigenses] &lt;WC, European History&gt;
[10] In 1229, Louis IX signed the Treaty of Paris with this count, curtailing the independence of Toulouse from the French crown. After a failed revolt, the Treaty of Lorris (“lo-REESE”) further reduced this count’s independence.
ANSWER: Raymond VII [prompt on Raymond of Toulouse]
[10] Name this French king from the Capetian dynasty who was canonized by Pope Boniface VIII (“the eighth”). He held the 1240 Disputation of Paris in which four rabbis defended the Talmud against the Christian convert Nicholas Donin.
ANSWER: Louis IX [or St. Louis]

538.
ID: 38394  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature World
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 02 | Number: 20
BONUS: This character receives a set of gilded pistols as a wedding gift from a friend who delivers a passionate speech at a banquet about this character’s painting of a biblical scene. For 10 points each:
[10] Unamuno frequently corresponded with José Martí, a national hero of this country. The Generation of ’98 were active during the Spanish-American War, which grew out of this country’s fight for independence from Spain.
ANSWER: Cuba &lt;AP, European Literature&gt;
[10] This member of the Spanish Generation of ’98 referred to his book Abel Sánchez: The History of a Passion as a “nivola.” He also wrote The Tragic Sense of Life and Mist.
ANSWER: Miguel de Unamuno
[10] Name this artist whose marriage to Elena escalates Joaquín (“hwah-KEEN”) Montegro’s hatred of him. Joaquín confesses his guilt on his deathbed about grabbing this character’s throat, which triggers a fatal heart attack.
ANSWER: Abel Sánchez [accept either underlined name]

539.
ID: 38396  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 03 | Number: 2
BONUS: In 1583, Philip II of Spain banned this dance due to its perceived lewdness. For 10 points each:
[10] Handel’s Keyboard Suite in D minor was written for this specific instrument, commonly used in the Baroque era. François Couperin wrote a treatise on The Art of Playing this instrument that creates sound by plucking strings.
ANSWER: harpsichord [or clavecin or clavicembalo; accept The Art of Playing the Harpsichord or L’Art De Toucher Le Clavecin; do not accept or prompt on “harp”] &lt;AE, Classical Music&gt;
[10] Sometimes, a gavotte (“guh-VOT”) would be added between the sarabande and the gigue, such as in the first suite of Concert Royaux (“con-SAIR rwah-YO”) by this composer of The Mysterious Barricades.
ANSWER: François Couperin (“coop-RAN”)
[10] Name this slow dance in triple meter that, in a Baroque suite, would typically come between the courante (“koo-RONT”) and the gigue (“zheeg”). The fourth movement of Handel’s Keyboard Suite in D minor is one of these dances.
ANSWER: sarabande

540.
ID: 38397  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature World
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 03 | Number: 3
BONUS: At the beginning of this novel, Nüwa sends the evil fox spirit Daji to punish King Zhou (“joe”) for lusting after a temple statue of her. For 10 points each:
[10] This other character from Journey to the West, who fights with a nine-toothed rake, was reincarnated as a hideous monster after he sexually harassed Chang’e (“chong-UH”).
ANSWER: Pigsy [or Zhu Bajie] &lt;CK, World/Other Literature&gt;
[10] In the better-known Ming fantasy novel Journey to the West, this mischievous character, who was imprisoned by the Buddha for eating the Heavenly Peaches, travels to India with the monk Xuanzang (“shwen-dzong”) to obtain sacred texts.
ANSWER: Sun Wukong [or Monkey King; or Songoku]
[10] Name this Ming-dynasty fantasy novel set during the fall of the Shang dynasty.
ANSWER: The Investiture of the Gods [or The Creation of the Gods; or Fengshen Yanyi]

541.
ID: 38398  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 03 | Number: 4
BONUS: Microtomes and ultramicrotomes are used to slice samples in preparation for one type of this technique. For 10 points each:
[10] In a technique developed by Faulk and Taylor, antibodies tagged with this metal can be used to stain specific structures, such as mitochondrial DNA, so that they can be seen using TEM.
ANSWER: gold [or Au; accept immunogold labeling] &lt;GR, Biology&gt;
[10] To achieve contrast in TEM (“T-E-M”), biological samples must be stained with heavy metals such as osmium. Osmium tetroxide is effective in staining these structures. FRAP is another technique used to study diffusion in these structures.
ANSWER: membranes [or phospholipid plasma membranes; accept cell membranes or bilayers]
[10] Name this type of microscopy that achieves higher resolution than normal light microscopy by using a beam of particles with shorter wavelength than visible light. It comes in scanning and transmission types.
ANSWER: electron microscopy [accept transmission electron microscopy or TEM; accept scanning electron microscopy or SEM]

542.
ID: 38399  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 03 | Number: 5
BONUS: This thinker described his ideas in formulas known as “mathemes.” For 10 points each:
[10] In “Visual Pleasure and Narrative Cinema,” Mulvey used the concept of “scopophilia” to describe this visual phenomenon, in which a certain group of people are objectified for the pleasure of the audience.
ANSWER: male gaze [prompt on gaze] &lt;VS, Social Science&gt;
[10] Lacan’s work in psychoanalysis influenced Laura Mulvey’s later psychoanalytic theories about this art form. Slavoj Žižek (“SLAH-voy ZHEE-zhek”) analyzed this art form in a psychoanalytic “pervert’s guide” that explored works like The Matrix and Psycho, among others.
ANSWER: films [or movies; or cinema; accept The Pervert’s Guide to Cinema]
[10] Name this psychoanalyst who discussed the importance of small children recognizing themselves in his conception of the “Mirror Stage.” He published most of his work in his Écrits (“ay-KREE”).
ANSWER: Jacques Lacan

543.
ID: 38400  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature World
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 03 | Number: 6
BONUS: Answer the following about the uproar in the post-war French world of letters over the introduction of Coca Cola, for 10 points each.
[10] A 1959 novel references the influx of American products into France via this character’s longing for “blewgenes” and “cacocalo.” This character’s uncle Gabriel works as a ballerina dancer at a nightclub.
ANSWER: Zazie (“zah-ZEE”) (The title character of Zazie in the Metro by Raymond Queneau.) &lt;JB, European Literature&gt;
[10] While living in Paris, this Hungarian-born writer lamented that the US was able to “force their revolting ‘Coke’ down our throats” because “Europe bought the whole package.” He also wrote the novel Darkness at Noon.
ANSWER: Arthur Koestler (“KESS-ler”)
[10] An article by Robert Escarpit (“ro-BAIR ess-car-PEE”) for this newspaper titled “Coca-colonization” (“coca CALL-uh-nization”) argued that it represented an attack on the “vulnerable point” of the “national beverage.” This major French newspaper issued a list of 100 Books of the Century in 1999.
ANSWER: Le Monde

544.
ID: 38401  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 03 | Number: 7
BONUS: During this event, a woman called La Voisin (“vwah-ZANN”) confessed to having murdered no fewer than 2,500 infants. For 10 points each:
[10] This general’s mother, Olympe Mancini (“oh-LAMP mahn-CHEE-nee”), was expelled from the French court as a result of the Affair of the Poisons. Fighting for Austria, this general defeated the French at the Battle of Blenheim (“BLEN-um”).
ANSWER: Eugene of Savoy [or François-Eugène de Savoie or Franz Eugen von Savoyen] &lt;JH, European History&gt;
[10] The Madame de Montespan was the mistress of this French king, during whose reign the Affair of the Poisons took place. This king, who was called the “Sun King,” built the Palace of Versailles.
ANSWER: Louis XIV [or Louis the Great or Louis le Grand Monarque]
[10] Name this sensational event in French history that exposed the fact that many members of French society had been hiring female fortune-tellers for criminal purposes. This event implicated the Madame de Montespan (“mon-teh-SPAWN”).
ANSWER: Affair of the Poisons [or L’affaire des poisons]

545.
ID: 38402  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 03 | Number: 8
BONUS: Chemical “caryatids” (“CARE-ya-tids”) have been used to produce an imidazolate metal organic framework that has a structure analogous to these naturally occurring materials. For 10 points each:
[10] In another application, zeolites can be used to partially separate these two diatomic gases, the two most common in the atmosphere.
ANSWER: oxygen AND nitrogen [or O2 AND N2; accept in either order; do not accept just “O” and “N”] &lt;GR, Chemistry&gt;
[10] Zeolites are useful in this role due to their high surface area. Zeolites act in this role in the oil industry for cracking reactions that break up large hydrocarbon chains.
ANSWER: catalysts [accept fluid catalytic cracking or heterogeneous catalysts]
[10] Name these highly porous aluminum silicate minerals that allow large amounts of material to adsorb (“ad-ZORB”) on their surfaces.
ANSWER: zeolites [accept zeolitic imidazolate framework]

546.
ID: 38406  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 03 | Number: 12
BONUS: When he was 56, this poet broke his own hand while punching a young Hemingway in the face. For 10 points each:
[10] Hemingway’s bizarrely vicious and one-sided dislike of Ford Madox Ford led him to describe the latter as a “well-clothed, up-ended hogshead” in this memoir about his time as writer living in 1920s Paris.
ANSWER: A Moveable Feast &lt;JH, American Literature&gt;
[10] In Death in the Afternoon, Hemingway argued that certain American authors would be better if they weren’t so sexually frustrated. He particularly called out this author who wrote about Mr. Snopes asking for proof from Mr. Harris about the title event in “Barn Burning.”
ANSWER: William Faulkner
[10] Name this American poet who began “The Emperor of Ice-Cream” with the line “Call the roller of big cigars,” and wrote of the title bird “among twenty snowy mountains” in “Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird.”
ANSWER: Wallace Stevens

547.
ID: 38407  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 03 | Number: 13
BONUS: The flag of this province contains several red water lilies called <em>pompeblêden</em>, which are often mistaken for hearts. For 10 points each:
[10] Flevoland’s (“FLAY-vo-lont’s”) flag has one of these symbols as a pun on the name of the engineer who designed the polders to reclaim Flevoland. Four of these symbols are white on a blue background in the flag of Quebec.
ANSWER: fleur-de-lis [or fleur-de-lys; or flower of luce; accept Fleurdelisé; prompt on flower; prompt on lily or lilies] (The engineer was named Cornelis Lely.) &lt;AP, Other&gt;
[10] Three Dutch provinces have flags with red lions rampant: South Holland, Limburg, and this least populous Dutch province. This province is the namesake of an island country separated from Australia by the Tasman Sea.
ANSWER: Zeeland (“ZAY-lont”) [accept New Zealand]
[10] Name this northern Dutch province. The language that shares its name with this province is considered to be one of the languages most similar to English.
ANSWER: Friesland (“FREEZ-lont”) [or Fryslân; or Frisia; or Frisian languages]

548.
ID: 38408  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 03 | Number: 14
BONUS: A resonant microwave cavity in the ADMX experiment is designed to detect these particles. For 10 points each:
[10] The most convincing evidence for dark matter came from this astronomer’s observation of flat galactic rotation curves, which differ from the expected curve given the observable galactic mass.
ANSWER: Vera Rubin &lt;GR, Physics&gt;
[10] Axions, like WIMPs, are candidates for this type of nonradiating, and thus invisible, matter. According to lambda-CDM cosmology, this stuff is about five times more abundant in the universe than normal baryonic matter.
ANSWER: dark matter
[10] Name these particles that were proposed to resolve the problem of the strong interaction not breaking CP-symmetry. These specific particles result from spontaneous breaking of a symmetry described by Roberto Peccei (“pet-CHAY”) and Helen Quinn.
ANSWER: axions

549.
ID: 38409  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 03 | Number: 15
BONUS: In 1970, William Shockley, a Nobel Prize-winning inventor of the transistor, proposed a plan to pay people 1,000 dollars for each IQ point under 100 to undergo this surgical procedure. For 10 points each:
[10] The term “eugenics” was first coined by this British scientist, who advocated arranged marriages in Hereditary Genius. He set up an endowment to create a namesake chair for eugenics that employed Karl Pearson.
ANSWER: Francis Galton &lt;JH, American History&gt;
[10] At this physician’s Battle Creek Sanitarium, he hosted three eugenics conferences for the Race Betterment Foundation. This physician developed a namesake variety of cornflakes that he served to his patients for breakfast.
ANSWER: John Harvey Kellogg
[10] Name this surgical procedure, whose compulsory form was declared constitutional in Buck v. Bell. In the majority opinion in that case, Oliver Wendell Holmes stated, “Three generations of imbeciles are enough.”
ANSWER: compulsory sterilization [or forced sterilization or sterilize or other word forms; prompt on eugenics; prompt on descriptive answers like making people unable to have children]

550.
ID: 38411  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 03 | Number: 17
BONUS: Peerless Jones helps this character awaken a giant sea urchin that lives in the Earth’s mantle in the story “When the World Screamed.” For 10 points each:
[10] In a Sherlock Holmes story, a league for men with this physical attribute mysteriously pays the pawnbroker Jabez (“JAY-bezz”) Wilson 4 pounds a week to copy articles from the Encyclopædia Britannica.
ANSWER: red-headed [or red hair or ginger or equivalents; accept “The Red-Headed League”] &lt;CK, British Literature&gt;
[10] Professor Challenger appears in The Lost World, a novel by this author who created the duo of Dr. Watson and Sherlock Holmes.
ANSWER: Arthur Conan Doyle
[10] Name this character. He first appeared in a novel narrated by the reporter Edward Malone in which he discovers a land of dinosaurs in the Amazon.
ANSWER: Professor Challenger

551.
ID: 38412  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 03 | Number: 18
BONUS: This group’s breakup at the start of World War I inspired August Macke’s (“OW-goost MACK-uh’s”) painting <em>Farewell</em>. For 10 points each:
[10] This artist’s diaries describe his initiation into the Blaue Reiter circle and his subsequent trip with Macke to Tunisia, which inspired his painting In the Style of Kairouan. This artist’s namesake center digitally published 3,900 pages of his lecture notes on color theory in 2016.
ANSWER: Paul Klee (“clay”) &lt;VS, Painting &amp; Sculpture&gt;
[10] Der Blaue Reiter is named for a painting by this Russian artist, one of its founders. This artist categorized many of his abstract paintings as “Compositions” and “Improvisations.”
ANSWER: Wassily Kandinsky
[10] Name this group, some of whose tenets are outlined in Concerning the Spiritual in Art. Its co-founder Franz Marc created the painting The Fate of the Animals.
ANSWER: Der Blaue Reiter (“dair BLAO-uh RYE-tuh”) [or The Blue Rider]

552.
ID: 38413  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Math
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 03 | Number: 19
BONUS: Tychonoff’s theorem states that the product of any collection of spaces with this property has this property with respect to the product topology. For 10 points each:
[10] The Arzelà–Ascoli theorem states that an equicontinuous sequence of functions defined on a compact space has this property. A sequence of functions has this property if the difference between its terms is eventually arbitrarily small for some N that depends [emphasize] only on epsilon.
ANSWER: uniform convergence [or converges uniformly or word forms; prompt on convergence or word forms] &lt;JN, Other Science: Mathematics&gt;
[10] Subsets of the Euclidean space are compact if and only if they are bounded and have this property, according to the Heine–Borel (“HIGH-nuh bo-REL”) theorem. A set with this property contains all its limit points.
ANSWER: closed
[10] Name this property of spaces. In general topology, this property means that any open cover of the space admits a finite subcover.
ANSWER: compactness [or compact]

553.
ID: 38414  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Mythology | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 03 | Number: 20
BONUS: This figure, a daughter of Helios, resides on the island of Aeaea. For 10 points each:
[10] When Elpenor (“el-PEE-nor”) dies after falling off of Circe’s roof, Odysseus marks his grave with one of these objects. Tiresias instructs Odysseus to carry one of these objects until he finds a suitable location to sacrifice to Poseidon.
ANSWER: oar [accept winnowing oar] &lt;JS, Mythology&gt;
[10] This god helps Odysseus resist Circe’s magic by giving him the magical herb moly. Earlier in the Odyssey, he convinces Calypso to allow Odysseus to leave her island.
ANSWER: Hermes
[10] Name this sorceress who gives Odysseus advice that allows him to escape Scylla (“SILL-uh”) and Charybdis (“kuh-RIB-diss”). She earlier turned his men into pigs.
ANSWER: Circe

554.
ID: 38415  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Religion | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 04 | Number: 1
BONUS: People participating in <em>keriah</em> (“kree-AH”) during these events either tear their clothes or cut a worn black ribbon in order to allow them to release the pain and anguish that precedes this event. For 10 points each:
[10] During Jewish funerals, mourners will recite this prayer whose name translates to “God full of compassion.” This prayer is also recited before weddings at the grave of any deceased parents of the bride or the groom.
ANSWER: El Maleh Rahamim (“EL ma-LAY RA-khah-meem”) [or El Malei Rachamim] &lt;AE, Religion&gt;
[10] Mourning in Judaism is divided into aninut (“ah-nee-NOOT”), which ends when the body is buried, and avelut (“ah-veh-LOOT”), which begins with this seven-day mourning period, sometimes named after the act of sitting on low stools during this period.
ANSWER: shiva (“SHIV-uh”) [or sitting shiva]
[10] Name these events in Judaism in which one’s life is celebrated before a body is interred in the earth. Hesped (“hess-PED”) are eulogies that are delivered during these events.
ANSWER: funeral [or burial]

555.
ID: 38416  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature World
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 04 | Number: 2
BONUS: The husband of a character with this maiden name becomes enraged when she breaks a fancy doll’s house against a fence. For 10 points each:
[10] The characters of V. S. Naipaul’s A House for Mr. Biswas are Trinidadians descended from migrants from this country. An author born in this country, Salman Rushdie, compared Naipaul’s death to that of a “beloved older brother.”
ANSWER: India &lt;AP, British Literature&gt;
[10] This eleven-fingered man loathes living with his wife Shama in the Tulsi family’s Hanuman House. He suffers setbacks when he tries to build a house of his own, but finally does buy a house shortly before his death.
ANSWER: Mohun Biswas (“BISH-wus”) [or Mr. Biswas; accept either underlined answer]
[10] Give this surname. A character whom the protagonist calls “W. C. Tuttle” marries a character with this surname after the latter’s mother interprets the note “I love you and I want to talk to you” as a marriage proposal.
ANSWER: Tulsi [accept Shama Tulsi, Mrs. Tulsi, Owad Tulsi, Shekhar Tulsi, or Padma Tulsi]

556.
ID: 38417  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 04 | Number: 3
BONUS: Answer the following about works of art that incorporate the written word, for 10 points each.
[10] One member of this art movement, Georges Braque, included the word “bar” in his painting Fruit Dish and Glass. Another artist from this movement, Pablo Picasso, painted the bombing of Guernica.
ANSWER: cubism &lt;JH, Painting &amp; Sculpture&gt;
[10] An artwork by conceptual artist Joseph Kosuth (“kuh-SOOT”) consists of a literal example of one of these objects, a photograph of that object, and the dictionary definition of this sort of object.
ANSWER: chairs [accept One and Three Chairs]
[10] Xu Bing (“shoo beeng”) created about 4,000 nonsense characters for his installation Book from the Sky, which partially consists of three of these objects hanging from the ceiling. The Song dynasty painting Along the River During the Qingming Festival was executed on one of these objects.
ANSWER: scrolls [or handscrolls; prompt on answers such as parchment or paper]

557.
ID: 38418  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 04 | Number: 4
BONUS: Answer the following about the history of the South American drink <em>mate</em> (“MAH-tay”). For 10 points each:
[10] The consumption of mate originated with this indigenous group, who inhabited a so-called “Jesuit Utopia” of the reductions. Along with Spanish, their language is an official language of Paraguay.
ANSWER: Guaraní (“gwah-ra-NEE”) &lt;AP, World History&gt;
[10] This country was a major producer of yerba mate until it was devastated in the War of the Triple Alliance under its president Francisco Solano López.
ANSWER: Paraguay [or Paraguái]
[10] The 1767 suppression of the Jesuits by Spain led to a decline in yerba mate (“ZHAIR-ba MAH-tay”) production on Jesuit “reductions,” which were settlements for indigenous people that fell outside of this system that gave grants of forced native labor.
ANSWER: encomienda [accept repartimiento]

558.
ID: 38419  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 04 | Number: 5
BONUS: This quantity is constant for a process in which a gas irreversibly expands through a valve. For 10 points each:
[10] This state function named for an American chemist equals enthalpy minus T times entropy. It is minimized in equilibrium with constant pressure and temperature, and it is used to predict whether a reaction is spontaneous.
ANSWER: Gibbs free energy [or Gibbs function; prompt on free energy or G] &lt;GR, Chemistry&gt;
[10] According to Hess’s law, enthalpy is a state function, in contrast to this other type of thermodynamic quantity, exemplified by work. Quantities of this type depend on the history of a system and are expressed as an inexact differential.
ANSWER: path-dependent variables [or path functions]
[10] Name this thermodynamic quantity that is useful in chemistry because its change equals the heat absorbed by a system in a reversible process at constant pressure.
ANSWER: enthalpy [or specific enthalpy; prompt on H]

559.
ID: 38420  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature World
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 04 | Number: 6
BONUS: In one of this author’s short stories, Zenchi Naigu is a monk who is fixated on the extreme size of the title body part. For 10 points each:
[10] The monk Dosen tutors the stuttering protagonist of this novel by Yukio Mishima in which that protagonist, Mizoguchi, decides to burn the title structure down.
ANSWER: Temple of the Golden Pavilion [or Kinkaku-ji] &lt;JS, World/Other Literature&gt;
[10] Another monk with an oversized nose created by Akutagawa is E’in (“EH-een”), who claims that on the third day of the third month, the title creature of this short story will fly into heaven from Sarusawa Pond.
ANSWER: “Dragon: the Old Potter’s Tale” [or “Ryū”]
[10] Name this author of short stories such as “The Nose” and “Hell Screen.” This namesake of Japan’s most prestigious literary award had his story “In a Grove” adapted into the film Rashōmon by Akira Kurosawa.
ANSWER: Ryūnosuke Akutagawa

560.
ID: 38423  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Other
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 04 | Number: 9
BONUS: When these geologic features are “unconfined,” they are under permeable materials, allowing them to be recharged by seeping surface water. For 10 points each:
[10] These features can be formed by penetrating a confined aquifer that is under greater than atmospheric pressure. These features, which do not require pumping, function because water from the aquifer rises to the level of the potentiometric surface.
ANSWER: artesian wells [prompt on wells] &lt;WC, Other Science: Earth Science&gt;
[10] To determine the hydraulic properties of an aquifer, one can perform this type of test in which one measures the response after a well’s water level is quickly changed by inserting the namesake solid object or pouring in water.
ANSWER: slug test [accept rising-head test or falling-head test]
[10] Name these geologic features, characterized by properties like hydraulic conductivity, transmissivity, and storativity. These features are layers of permeable rock that store groundwater.
ANSWER: aquifers

561.
ID: 38424  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Other
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 04 | Number: 10
BONUS: Giuseppe Momo was inspired by Renaissance architect Donato Bramante to design two overlapping instances of this type of structure for the Vatican Museums. For 10 points each:
[10] This designer added a black spiral staircase to his house for Truus Schröder to connect to a private room that was off-limits to visitors. This non-Japanese designer also used a spiral staircase in his half of the Van Gogh museum in Amsterdam.
ANSWER: Gerrit Rietveld (“KHAIR-it REET-felt”) &lt;AP, Other Arts&gt;
[10] A spiral staircase ascends to the body of a water tank in Svaneke (“SVEN-uh-kuh”) designed by this Danish architect. He attempted to instill a feeling of “otherworldliness” with the 100-meter-wide stairs that lead to a building whose roof is a series of sail-like shells.
ANSWER: Jørn Utzon (“YUN OOT-sun”)
[10] Name this type of structure common in medieval castle towers. One of these structures in Santa Fe’s Loretto Chapel, made of wood and glue, is called “miraculous” for lacking the central pole that these features usually wind around.
ANSWER: spiral staircases [or spiral stairs; prompt on staircases or stairs]

562.
ID: 38426  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 04 | Number: 12
BONUS: A book about these people was prefaced with the papal bull <em>Summis desiderantes affectibus</em>, which had given Johann Sprenger and Heinrich Kraemer authority to persecute these people. For 10 points each:
[10] This Enlightenment-era Austrian monarch curtailed the execution of witches on the advice of court physician Gerard van Swieten, who also disproved the existence of vampires after being asked by this monarch to investigate.
ANSWER: Maria Theresa [or Maria Theresia] &lt;JS, European History&gt;
[10] This English witch hunter called himself the “Witchfinder General” during the English Civil War. He made use of the “swimming test” by tossing the accused witch into water and seeing if they would float.
ANSWER: Matthew Hopkins
[10] Name these people who were accused of performing magic with the aid of demons. The Malleus Maleficarum was a handbook on finding these people and putting them on trial.
ANSWER: witches [accept sorcerers or sorceresses]

563.
ID: 38427  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Mythology | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 04 | Number: 13
BONUS: The <em>nosoi</em> were the personification of this phenomenon that were released from Pandora’s jar. For 10 points each:
[10] In Roman myth, the senate responded to a plague that was ravishing Rome by sending a delegation to this location, where a giant snake slithered onto their ship. This Greek town was home to a popular healing sanctuary dedicated to Asclepius.
ANSWER: Epidaurus &lt;JS, Mythology&gt;
[10] That plague was caused by the arrows of this god of music, sunlight, and poetry, who also slew the Python and had an oracle at Delphi.
ANSWER: Apollo
[10] Name this phenomenon that affects the Greek camp in Book I of the Iliad. The return of Chryseis (“cry-SEE-iss”) ends that instance of this phenomenon.
ANSWER: plague [accept equivalents like disease, illness, or sickness]

564.
ID: 38429  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 04 | Number: 15
BONUS: Following this battle, a soldier from the winning side smashed a looted sacred vase, prompting this battle’s winning commander to smash the offending soldier’s head with an axe a year later. For 10 points each:
[10] In 750, the last Merovingian king of the Franks, Childeric III, was deposed by Pepin the Short, the father of this other Frankish king who was crowned by Leo III as the first Holy Roman Emperor.
ANSWER: Charlemagne [or Charles I or Charles the Great] &lt;WC, European History&gt;
[10] This king of the Franks won the Battle of Soissons. This Merovingian king, who issued the Salic Law, supposedly converted to Christianity after calling upon the God of his wife Clotilde at the Battle of Tolbiac.
ANSWER: Clovis I [or Clodovechus]
[10] Name this 486 CE battle in which a king of the Franks defeated Syagrius, a “king of the Romans” who ruled a rump state of the Western Roman Empire in Gaul.
ANSWER: Battle of Soissons (“swah-SAWN”)

565.
ID: 38430  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature European
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 04 | Number: 16
BONUS: In a novel, a man who fights for the independence of this island murders his former lover Eminé in her sleep, blaming her for causing the death of an abbot and the destruction of a monastery. For 10 points each:
[10] Zorba cooks for workers in this type of facility. Émile Zola’s novel Germinal describes Étienne Lantier’s (“ay-tee-EN lawn-tee-AY’s”) leadership of a strike of workers in this type of facility.
ANSWER: coal mines [accept lignite mines] &lt;AP, European Literature&gt;
[10] Captain Michalis and Zorba the Greek were created by Nikos Kazantzakis, who also wrote novels about a village’s “re-crucifixion” of this religious figure and this figure’s struggle against his “last temptation.”
ANSWER: Jesus Christ [accept either underlined portion; or Jesus of Nazareth]
[10] Name this island where a captain is shot in the head while shouting “Freedom or death!” The narrator of a different novel hires a Romanian-born man who he met at a café while reading The Divine Comedy to work as a cook on this island.
ANSWER: Crete

566.
ID: 38431  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 04 | Number: 17
BONUS: This syntactic phenomenon occurs between two anaphors X and Y if and only if X c-commands Y, and X and Y corefer. For 10 points each:
[10] In government and binding theory, verbs and prepositions govern this grammatical feature of nouns and pronouns. In English, this grammatical feature includes the nominative, the accusative, and the genitive.
ANSWER: grammatical case &lt;CK, Social Science&gt;
[10] These languages, which allow pronouns to be omitted when they are inferable from syntax or pragmatics, are assumed to have phonologically-null noun phrases in subject position in government and binding theory.
ANSWER: pro-drop languages
[10] Name this syntactic phenomenon. In the 1980s, Noam Chomsky developed its Principles A, B, and C in a series of lectures on government and this phenomenon.
ANSWER: binding [or government and binding; accept word forms like bind or bound]

567.
ID: 38432  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 04 | Number: 18
BONUS: A character in this piece sings in a higher pitch each time to represent his rising fear and the increasing tension. For 10 points each:
[10] Die schöne Müllerin begins with this simple strophic song in B-flat major whose five stanzas have 3 four-bar phrases that repeat a static tonic–dominant harmony suggesting the title activity, which “is the Miller’s joy.” The same activity titles a difficult C major fantasy that Schubert based on another lied (“leed”).
ANSWER: “Das Wandern” (“doss VON-dun”) [or “Wandering”; accept “Der Wanderer” or Wanderer Fantasy] &lt;AE, Classical Music&gt;
[10] Der Erlkönig is a lied (“leed”) by this composer of the song cycles Winterreise (“VIN-tuh-RYE-zuh”) and Die schöne Müllerin (“dee SHUR-nuh MYOO-ler-in”).
ANSWER: Franz Schubert
[10] Name this song in which the pianist’s right hand repeats G octaves in rapid triplets to represent the galloping of a horse carrying a father and son as they flee from the title character.
ANSWER: Der Erlkönig [or The Erl-king or The Elf-king]

568.
ID: 38433  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Geography | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 04 | Number: 19
BONUS: This city is home to a Bates Smart-designed skyscraper currently under construction that will be 61 stories tall and 12 meters wide at its narrowest point. For 10 points each:
[10] You can leave Melbourne from Southern Cross Station on Collins Street, taking the Overland to this capital of South Australia. This city was built on the banks of the River Torrens.
ANSWER: Adelaide &lt;GR, Other&gt;
[10] The aforementioned super-slender tower is located on this historic street, also home to the Rialto tower. This street has many Victorian-era buildings, as well as a town hall designed by local architect Joseph Reed.
ANSWER: Collins Street [accept Collins House, which is the super-slender skyscraper]
[10] Name this second most-populous city in Australia, where the Australian Open is held. This city’s Southbank neighborhood is home to the 297-meter-tall Eureka Tower.
ANSWER: Melbourne

569.
ID: 38435  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 05 | Number: 1
BONUS: This case arose when David Jerome attempted to forcefully allot Kiowa (“KYE-oh-wuh”) lands in violation of the Medicine Lodge Treaty. For 10 points each:
[10] The Lone Wolf case arose in Indian Territory, which eventually became this US state to which many white settlers came in the 1889 “Land Run.” “Sooners” in this state entered the territory without government permission.
ANSWER: Oklahoma &lt;CK, American History&gt;
[10] The Medicine Lodge Treaty was abrogated by this 1887 law, which aimed to make Native Americans into farmers by distributing reservation lands among individuals, then put the “surplus” land up for public sale.
ANSWER: Dawes Act [or Dawes Severalty Act of 1887 or General Allotment Act]
[10] Name this 1903 Supreme Court case which held that Congress had the authority to unilaterally abrogate treaty obligations with Native American tribes.
ANSWER: Lone Wolf v. Hitchcock [accept either underlined part]

570.
ID: 38436  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 05 | Number: 2
BONUS: The change in wavelength due to this phenomenon is proportional to one minus cosine theta. For 10 points each:
[10] The radiation field from an accelerating point charge can be calculated from a potential partially named for this French physicist. He derived a relativistic generalization of Larmor’s formula for the total power radiated by a point charge.
ANSWER: Alfred-Marie Liénard (“lee-ay-NARR”) [do not accept “Lennard” or “Lennard-Jones”] (The potential is the Liénard–Wiechert potential.) &lt;GR, Physics&gt;
[10] In this process, electrons radiate when they hit a metal target due to large acceleration. It produces the continuous spectrum of X-ray tubes, and its name means “breaking radiation.”
ANSWER: bremsstrahlung
[10] Name this scattering process between an electron and a photon, contrasted with lower-energy Thomas scattering. Its cross section can be derived from the Klein–Nishina formula.
ANSWER: Compton scattering [or Compton effect]

571.
ID: 38437  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature World
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 05 | Number: 3
BONUS: A post on this blog describes a conversation in which “Professor Hunk” complains about the “oppression olympics” to a Jewish colleague. For 10 points each:
[10] In Americanah, one of Ifemelu’s classes discusses the censorship of offensive words in the film adaptation of this Alex Haley novel that describes the enslavement of Kunta Kinte and his descendants in North America.
ANSWER: Roots &lt;AP, World/Other Literature&gt;
[10] Ifemelu’s teenage romance with Obinze in Lagos and struggles while at Princeton are outlined in Americanah, a 2013 novel by this Nigerian author of Purple Hibiscus.
ANSWER: Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie (“uh-DEE-chee-ay”)
[10] Name this fictional blog written by Ifemelu, a Nigerian student at Princeton University. Another post on this blog was inspired by the two suitors of a hairdresser at the Trenton salon where Ifemelu has her hair braided.
ANSWER: “Raceteenth” [or “Raceteenth or Various Observations About American Blacks (Those Formerly Known as Negroes) by a Non-American Black”]

572.
ID: 38438  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 05 | Number: 4
BONUS: This artist included a phallic rocket on a wafer called the <em>Moon Museum</em> that was sent to the moon on Apollo 12. For 10 points each:
[10] This artist also used imagery from the space program, such as the launch towers depicted in Waiting and Gemini Launch Pad. This grandson of an illustrator and son of another artist also did a posthumous portrait of JFK.
ANSWER: Jamie Wyeth [prompt on Wyeth] (His father is Andrew Wyeth, and his grandfather is N. C. Wyeth.) &lt;GR, Painting &amp; Sculpture&gt;
[10] This artist’s contribution to the Moon Museum is a single line. He used photos and lithographs of the space shuttle for his collage Hotshot, and used found objects and paintings in his characteristic “combines,” such as Bed and Canyon.
ANSWER: Robert Rauschenberg
[10] Name this artist who used photos of Buzz Aldrin from Apollo 11 for his brightly colored Moonwalk series of silkscreens. This artist’s other silkscreens include Marilyn Diptych.
ANSWER: Andy Warhol

573.
ID: 38439  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 05 | Number: 5
BONUS: In finite games with perfect information, this method always calculates a subgame perfect Nash equilibrium. For 10 points each:
[10] If this game is played a finite number of times, backward induction finds that the two players defect in each subgame. Played a single time, this game’s Nash equilibrium has both players choosing to defect over cooperate.
ANSWER: prisoner’s dilemma &lt;CK, Social Science&gt;
[10] Backward induction makes unrealistic predictions in this game in which one actor proposes a division of a sum of money that the second actor can either accept or reject, in which case neither actor gets any money.
ANSWER: ultimatum game [do not accept “dictator game”]
[10] Name this optimization technique in game theory that involves iteratively reasoning from the final decision node to the initial decision node in an extensive form game.
ANSWER: backward induction [accept backward chaining or backward inference; prompt on induction]

574.
ID: 38440  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Geography | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 05 | Number: 6
BONUS: Karl Mauch (“MAO’kh”) falsely identified this archeological site as the biblical city of Ophir (“OH-fur”), though in 1905, David Randall-MacIver (“Randall muh-KYE-ver”) correctly identified this site to be of African origin. For 10 points each:
[10] Mutapa was a major producer of this resource that was exported to the Portuguese through the port of Sofala. Large amounts of this resource were discovered in Witwatersrand (“vit-VOT-ers-ROND”) in 1886.
ANSWER: gold &lt;AE, World History&gt;
[10] Great Zimbabwe was constructed by this ethnic group, which is also the largest in modern-day Zimbabwe. A leader from this ethnic group named Nyatsimba created the Mutapa Kingdom.
ANSWER: Shona [accept Karanga]
[10] Name this archaeological site home to the Great Enclosure and many soapstone bird statues. This site lent its name to the African country in which it is located, whose capital is Harare.
ANSWER: Great Zimbabwe

575.
ID: 38441  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 05 | Number: 7
BONUS: Peaks in this technique correspond to modes like scissoring or stretching, and those modes must involve a change in dipole moment to be “active” for this technique. For 10 points each:
[10] Raman spectroscopy can probe the vibrational structure of molecules or surfaces by measuring this shift in the frequency of scattered light. This shift is due to molecules gaining or losing vibrational energy during scattering.
ANSWER: Stokes shift [accept Stokes or anti-Stokes scattering] &lt;GR, Chemistry&gt;
[10] This part of the infrared absorption spectrum from around 1500 to 500 inverse-centimeters contains characteristic absorption valleys for different molecules.
ANSWER: fingerprint region
[10] Name this type of spectroscopy that probes the vibrational energy structure of molecules using light whose wavelength is longer than visible light.
ANSWER: infrared spectroscopy [or IR spectroscopy]

576.
ID: 38443  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Audiovisual
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 05 | Number: 9
BONUS: Her career broke out after she played Violetta in the 2005 Salzburg Festival production of <em>La traviata</em> alongside the curly-haired Mexican-French tenor Ronaldo Villazón. For 10 points each:
[10] Netrebko opened a record third consecutive Met season as Tatiana, who sings the “Letter scene” alone in this dark drama that bookended Galina Vishnevskaya’s career. Baritone Yuri Mazurok often sang the title role of this opera whose libretto was by K. S. Shilovsky and the composer, Tchaikovsky.
ANSWER: Eugene Onegin [or Yevgeny Onegin] &lt;OL, Other Arts&gt;
[10] In a high-production 2008 film of this verismo opera by Puccini, Netrebko and Villazón star as the frail seamstress Mimì and the poor poet Rodolfo who fall in love in snowy Paris. It’s the Met’s most performed opera.
ANSWER: La bohème (“bo-EM”)
[10] Name this dark-haired Russian soprano, the world’s most sought after diva. She was discovered and mentored by Mariinsky (“ma-RIN-skee”) Theater director Valery Gergiev (“vuh-LAIR-ee GAIRG-yiff”).
ANSWER: Anna Netrebko

577.
ID: 38444  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Mythology | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 05 | Number: 10
BONUS: Answer the following about parents in Hindu myth losing their temper with their children. For 10 points each:
[10] While still a fetus, the sage Ashtavakra (“USH-tuh-vuh-kruh”) corrected his father’s recitation of some mantras from these four most important Hindu holy scriptures, causing his father to curse him to be born with eight bends in his body.
ANSWER: the Vedas [or Śruti] &lt;AP, Mythology&gt;
[10] This sage was cursed by his father Brahma (“BRUM-huh”) to spend a life on Earth as the son of a maidservant after asking him why humans were forced to procreate. This sage wanders the three worlds chanting “Nārāyana” (“nah-RAH-yuh-nuh”), a name of Vishnu.
ANSWER: Nārada
[10] In the Katha Upanishad (“CUT-uh oo-puh-nih-shud”), Nachiketas’s (“nuh-chih-KAY-tus’s”) father told him to “go to hell” in a moment of rage; taking this command literally, Nachiketas went to hell and received a discourse from this lord of the underworld, the Hindu death god.
ANSWER: Yama [or Dharmarāja]

578.
ID: 38445  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 05 | Number: 11
BONUS: In support of his ally and uncle, King John of England, this monarch invaded France but was decisively defeated by Philip II Augustus at the Battle of Bouvines (“boo-VEEN”). For 10 points each:
[10] Otto IV was the son of a duke of Bavaria with this name, called “the Lion.” The fourth Holy Roman Emperor with this name started the lay investiture controversy and undertook the Walk to Canossa.
ANSWER: Henry [accept Henry the Lion or Henry IV] &lt;WC, European History&gt;
[10] Otto IV was the only Holy Roman Emperor from this dynasty. This dynasty gave its name to an Italian political faction that supported the pope and opposed the Ghibellines, who supported the emperor.
ANSWER: Welf [or Guelfs or Guelphs]
[10] Name this Holy Roman Emperor who struggled for control over the Holy Roman Empire with Frederick II Hohenstaufen (“HO-en-shtow-fin”). He was deposed following his defeat at the Battle of Bouvines.
ANSWER: Otto IV [or Otto of Brunswick]

579.
ID: 38446  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 05 | Number: 12
BONUS: Answer the following about instruments found in aircraft cockpits, for 10 points each.
[10] In addition to gyroscopic instruments, the common “six-pack” of flight instruments includes a set that measures the pressure at the end of one of these tubes to produce readings for altitude or velocity.
ANSWER: pitot (“PEE-toh”) tubes [accept pitot-static tubes] &lt;AP, Other Science: Engineering&gt;
[10] VOR, the standard aircraft navigation system, utilizes signals in the Very High Frequency band of this longest-wavelength region of the electromagnetic spectrum.
ANSWER: radio waves
[10] The center of the Primary Flight Display shows information about this property, quantified by yaw, pitch, and roll rotations about the aircraft’s principal axes. Euler (“OY-ler”) angles and unit quaternions also describe this property for a rigid body.
ANSWER: orientation [or attitude; or angular position]

580.
ID: 38447  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 05 | Number: 13
BONUS: In January 2019, this legislator proposed in a <em>60 Minutes</em> interview that the top-level marginal income tax rate could be raised to 60 or 70 percent to fund a “Green New Deal.” For 10 points each:
[10] High-income earners can avoid paying taxes on earnings and withdrawals from their retirement savings by funding a “backdoor” one of these retirement accounts. Individuals must earn less than 122,000 dollars a year to be eligible to contribute to these accounts.
ANSWER: Roth IRA [or Roth Individual Retirement Account; prompt on Roth or IRA or Individual Retirement Account; do not accept or prompt on “Traditional IRA” or “Roth 401(k)”] &lt;CK, Other&gt;
[10] Currently, many high-earning individuals in America pay this tax with 26 and 28 percent brackets instead of the normal income tax, preventing them from using deductions to completely avoid paying taxes.
ANSWER: alternative minimum tax [or AMT]
[10] Name this recently-elected US representative from New York City. A member of the Democratic Socialists of America, she won election after launching a successful primary challenge against Joe Crowley.
ANSWER: Alexandra Ocasio-Cortez [accept AOC]

581.
ID: 38452  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 05 | Number: 18
BONUS: XPB and the XPD genes, which are named for types of xeroderma pigmentosum, are involved in one form of this process. For 10 points each:
[10] This other form of DNA repair corrects base pairing errors and is carried out by DNA polymerase delta. Genes MHL1 and MSH2 are involved in cutting and recognition in this form of DNA repair. Mutations in those genes are responsible for the majority of hereditary colon cancer.
ANSWER: mismatch repair [or MMR] &lt;GR, Biology&gt;
[10] Strand breaks repaired by non-homologous end joining disrupt this two-stranded geometric structure of DNA proposed by Watson and Crick and supported by the X-ray crystallographic studies of Rosalind Franklin.
ANSWER: double helix [prompt on helix]
[10] Name this process that addresses errors like cyclobutane-pyrimidine dimers.
ANSWER: DNA repair [accept nucleotide excision repair or NER; prompt on repair]

582.
ID: 38453  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 05 | Number: 19
BONUS: Two characters in this play come up with the name “T. S. Eliot and Pam” for their imaginary band and pretend to search for somebody called “nobody.” For 10 points each:
[10] Act I of the play opens with Alison doing this activity, which caused audiences to gasp when the curtain was raised on its opening night. Act III opens nearly identically, but with Helena doing this activity instead.
ANSWER: ironing clothes [accept any answer indicating the use of an iron or ironing board] &lt;AP, British Literature&gt;
[10] As it depicted the everyday life of a working-class family, John Osborne’s Look Back in Anger pioneered the “kitchen sink” style of this movement, which attempts to present life as it is.
ANSWER: realism [or realist]
[10] Name this play in which Jimmy Porter launches a series of tirades at his wife Alison. Jimmy has an affair with Alison’s friend Helena, but reconciles with Alison by playing the “bear and squirrel game” after she miscarries.
ANSWER: Look Back In Anger

583.
ID: 38454  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Religion | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 05 | Number: 20
BONUS: <em>Description acceptable.</em> An example of one of these works called <em>The Message</em> uses a paraphrase-driven approach, exemplified by imagery like “you don’t hang out at Sin Saloon” in its rendering of Psalm 1. For 10 points each:
[10] Unlike most modern translations such as the NRSV, the King James Version translated the New Testament from the Textus Receptus, a Greek text compiled by this Dutch humanist scholar who also wrote In Praise of Folly.
ANSWER: Desiderius Erasmus [or Erasmus of Rotterdam] &lt;WC, Religion&gt;
[10] Brian Metzger oversaw the creation of this Bible translation, which has been criticized by some conservative Christians for its use of gender-neutral terms at the request of its publisher, the National Council of Churches.
ANSWER: New Revised Standard Version [or NRSV]
[10] Name these works, which more typically follow the approaches of dynamic or formal equivalence. The King James Version was one of these works commissioned during the reign of James I.
ANSWER: Bible translations [accept English versions of the Bible or anything indicating that the Bible is being translated into a different language; prompt on Bibles by asking “What specifically has been done to the Bible?”]

584.
ID: 38455  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature European
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 06 | Number: 1
BONUS: This character is appalled to see a “giggling, dirty-minded creature” crawling on all fours and “hissing like a naughty cat” in pursuit of his fiancée, who is squeaking like a mouse. For 10 points each:
[10] At the end of Amadeus, Salieri attempts, and fails, to commit suicide using one of these objects. In August Strindberg’s Miss Julie, the valet Jean (“zhawn”) convinces his lover to commit suicide with this type of object after failing to go through with their elopement.
ANSWER: shaving razor &lt;AP, World/Other Literature&gt;
[10] Peter Shaffer’s play Amadeus was inspired by this Russian Romantic author’s dramatization of the rivalry between Salieri and Mozart. He wrote the play Boris Godunov and the verse novel Eugene Onegin.
ANSWER: Alexander Pushkin
[10] Name this character who appears as a demented old man in a wheelchair in the frame story of a 1979 play in which he begs the title character to “pardon your assassin!”
ANSWER: Antonio Salieri [accept either underlined name]

585.
ID: 38456  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Math
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 06 | Number: 2
BONUS: The Gauss–Markov theorem states that given several conditions, the “least-squares” form of this technique generates the best linear unbiased estimators. For 10 points each:
[10] A possible method of addressing heteroskedasticity is to apply this function to the data. When this function has been applied to the data on both sides of an estimated equation, the resulting OLS estimators can be interpreted as point elasticities.
ANSWER: logarithm [or logarithmic; accept natural log or ln] &lt;AE, Other Science: Mathematics&gt;
[10] The conditions for the Gauss–Markov theorem are violated when the error variance of a regression is [emphasize] not constant across observations, a situation that is given this name.
ANSWER: heteroskedasticity
[10] Name this statistical technique that uses data to create a predicted model and line of best-fit. The linear form of this technique is commonly used in the social sciences.
ANSWER: regression analysis [accept linear regression]

586.
ID: 38457  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Religion | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 06 | Number: 3
BONUS: <em>Original language term required.</em> Al-Ikhlas, which is sometimes called the <em>surah</em> of this concept, asserts this concept with the declaration that “He, Allah, is One.” For 10 points each:
[10] A verse of the Quran addressed to Christians criticizes this Christian view of God as three persons in one Godhead by declaring, “Say not, ‘three.’ Desist, it is better for you; Allah is only one Allah.”
ANSWER: Trinity [or Trinitarianism] &lt;WC, Religion&gt;
[10] The Book of Tawhid was the main work of this fundamentalist Islamic theologian whose alliance with the House of Saud (“suh-OOD”) led his ideas to become the state-sponsored interpretation of Islam in Saudi Arabia.
ANSWER: Muhammad ibn Abd al-Wahhab [or Wahhabism]
[10] Name this concept in Islamic theology, which holds that God is singular and unique. This concept, which is sometimes translated as “monotheism,” is violated by shirk, the act of associating others with God.
ANSWER: tawhid (“tau-HEED”) [or tawheed; or tawḥīd]

587.
ID: 38458  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 06 | Number: 4
BONUS: Milhaud (“mee-YO”) was accused of literally setting text from a catalogue of these objects in a song cycle, and Blanche and Constance make a cross out of these objects in an interlude in Poulenc’s (“poo-LANK’s”) opera <em>Dialogues of the Carmelites</em>. For 10 points each:
[10] In Olivier Messiaen’s (“oh-leev-YAY mess-YAWN’s”) Turangalîla-Symphonie, two of these instruments introduce the slow, dissonant “flower” theme, converging toward each other. This instrument’s skittish trills and staccato repeated notes open the “Liturgie de cristal” first movement of Messiaen’s Quartet for the End of Time.
ANSWER: clarinet &lt;AE, Classical Music&gt;
[10] The “Flower Duet” is from the opera Lakmé by this composer of the ballets Sylvia and Coppélia.
ANSWER: Léo Delibes (“duh-LEEB”)
[10] Name these objects that Lakmé and her servant Mallika gather by a river while singing a lush duet in Act 1 of a French Romantic opera set in British India.
ANSWER: flowers [accept “Flower Duet” or “Duo des fleurs” or Catalogue de fleurs]

588.
ID: 38459  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 06 | Number: 5
BONUS: In one poem, this author recalls when he was held “green and dying” during a period in which his “wishes raced through the house high hay.” For 10 points each:
[10] In the refrain to his villanelle “Do not go gentle into that good night,” Thomas tells the addressee to do this action “against the dying of the light.”
ANSWER: rage &lt;AP, British Literature&gt;
[10] Another Welsh hill features in Thomas’s poem about his “thirtieth year to heaven,” which is titled as a “poem in” this month. This month is also the setting of Yeats’s “The Wild Swans at Coole (“cool”),” which describes how “the water / Mirrors a still sky” under this month’s “twilight.”
ANSWER: October
[10] Name this author of “Fern Hill.” In another poem, this author asks the addressee to “curse, bless, me now with your fierce tears.”
ANSWER: Dylan Thomas

589.
ID: 38460  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 06 | Number: 6
BONUS: In purple sulfur bacteria, a reaction of this type oxidizes hydrogen sulfide, and many other organisms perform this type of reaction on water. For 10 points each:
[10] Hydroxyl radicals are referred to as atmospheric “detergents” because they react to break down many pollutants, including this hydrocarbon greenhouse gas that has an atmospheric lifetime of around 10 years.
ANSWER: methane [or CH4] &lt;GR, Chemistry&gt;
[10] Photolysis is important in the formation and dissociation of ozone in the atmosphere. When an ozone molecule is photolyzed, the resulting atomic oxygen can react with water to form one of these radical species.
ANSWER: hydroxyl radical [prompt on OH]
[10] Name this class of reactions in which the activation energy for chemical breakdown is supplied by light.
ANSWER: photolysis [or photodissociation; prompt on partial answers including photo reactions, photo-catalyzed reactions, photo-stimulated reactions, or dissociation]

590.
ID: 38461  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 06 | Number: 7
BONUS: The Canadian Bill of Rights, which was Canada’s first federal law to protect human rights, was passed during the administration of this prime minister. For 10 points each:
[10] Pearson was a leader of this Canadian political party that rivalled the Progressive Conservatives. Other leaders of this party have included Pierre Trudeau and his son, the current prime minister Justin Trudeau.
ANSWER: Liberal Party of Canada [or Parti Libéral du Canada] &lt;AE, European History&gt;
[10] Diefenbaker was succeeded by this prime minister who had won a Nobel Peace Prize for his efforts in resolving the Suez Crisis. He instituted Canada’s first universal medicare plan.
ANSWER: Lester Pearson
[10] Name this prime minister of Canada who led the Progressive Conservative Party. This prime minister controversially cancelled the Avro Arrow program and accepted Bomarc missiles from the United States.
ANSWER: John Diefenbaker (“DEE-fin-BAY-ker”) [or John George Diefenbaker]

591.
ID: 38462  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Geography | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 06 | Number: 8
BONUS: A building in this city served as a naval training center, commercial pier, and state university building before becoming a major tourist attraction. For 10 points each:
[10] This city built on a barrier island in the Gulf of Mexico is home to a “pleasure pier” that was rebuilt in 2012 on the site of a pier destroyed in Hurricane Carla. In 1900, this city was almost completely destroyed in a hurricane.
ANSWER: Galveston &lt;GR, Other&gt;
[10] Another entertainment pier is located at the end of Colorado Avenue in this southern California city. This city is on the western end of the Expo light rail line.
ANSWER: Santa Monica
[10] Name this city on Lake Michigan whose Near North side is home to Navy Pier. This city is also home to a Museum Campus that includes the Shedd Aquarium, the Adler Planetarium, and the Field Museum.
ANSWER: Chicago

592.
ID: 38463  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature European
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 06 | Number: 9
BONUS: In this novel, the protagonist tours Europe and attempts to live in a house with three women before deciding that what he really needs is solitude. For 10 points each:
[10] Patrice Meursault of A Happy Death and Meursault of The Stranger are both French-Algerian clerks created by this French absurdist, whose nonfiction includes “The Myth of Sisyphus.”
ANSWER: Albert Camus &lt;JH, European Literature&gt;
[10] Patrice shares this surname with the protagonist of a later novel by the same author, in which that character declares “Mother died today.” This surname titles a 2013 Kamel Daoud novel about Harun, the brother of a man murdered by that character with this name.
ANSWER: Meursault (“murr-SO”) (The novel is The Meursault Investigation.)
[10] Name this novel in which Patrice kills the invalid Roland Zagreus and steals all his money.
ANSWER: A Happy Death [or La mort heureuse]

593.
ID: 38464  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 06 | Number: 10
BONUS: One of this movement’s painters, Luigi Russolo, explored the new directions that orchestral music could take in a world of urban sounds in his manifesto <em>The Art of Noise</em>. For 10 points each:
[10] Russolo depicted red shapes reminiscent of sound waves in his paintings for the dynamism of one of these objects. Fishermen use hooks to pull one of these objects belonging to the narrator out of a muddy ditch in the frame-story of Marinetti’s Futurist Manifesto.
ANSWER: car [or equivalents like automobile; accept Dynamism of a Car or Dinamismo di un’Automobile] &lt;JH, Painting &amp; Sculpture&gt;
[10] Futurist paintings were often titled for this quality related to movement, such as Giacomo’s painting of a dog on a leash and Umberto Boccioni’s painting of a cyclist.
ANSWER: dynamism [or dinamismo]
[10] Name this early 20th-century Italian art movement whose manifesto was written by Filippo Tommaso Marinetti and champions its focus on speed, movement, and technology.
ANSWER: Futurism [or word forms; or Futurismo]

594.
ID: 38465  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 06 | Number: 11
BONUS: In the case <em>Wisconsin v. Yoder</em>, the Supreme Court held that the freedom of religion guaranteed by this amendment outweighed the State’s interest in compelling school attendance past eighth grade. For 10 points each:
[10] This case found that students who had worn black armbands to protest the Vietnam War did not lose their First Amendment rights to freedom of speech when they entered school property.
ANSWER: Tinker v. Des Moines Independent School District [accept either underlined part; accept Tinker test] &lt;WC, American History&gt;
[10] This case found that providing state funding to religious schools violated the Establishment Clause by fostering “excessive government entanglement with religion,” giving rise to this case’s namesake “test.”
ANSWER: Lemon v. Kurtzman [accept either underlined part; accept Lemon test]
[10] Name this constitutional amendment that was cited in Engel v. Vitale, which found that instituting a voluntary, non-denominational school prayer violated the Establishment Clause.
ANSWER: First Amendment

595.
ID: 38466  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 06 | Number: 12
BONUS: This drug is commonly packaged with the antiretroviral Lamivudine in Combivir. For 10 points each:
[10] Another anti-HIV drug is enfuvirtide (“en-FEW-ver-tide”), a fusion inhibitor that attempts to stop HIV from entering cells. Enfuvirtide binds to an HIV envelope glycoprotein that is exposed when another glycoprotein binds to the CD4 receptor. Name either of those two glycoproteins.
ANSWER: gp120 OR gp41 &lt;VS, Biology&gt;
[10] AZT is used to treat side effects of AIDS, a disease caused by this virus. This retrovirus is also classified as a lentivirus due to its long incubation time.
ANSWER: HIV [or human immunodeficiency virus]
[10] Name this drug. It is structurally similar to thymidine triphosphate, so reverse transcriptase adds it to DNA strands, hindering DNA replication.
ANSWER: AZT [or azidothymidine or zidovudine]

596.
ID: 38467  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Religion | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 06 | Number: 13
BONUS: According to legend, this being was hidden away in the attic of the Prague Synagogue. For 10 points each:
[10] To create the golem, Judah Loew wrote a holy name of God with this many letters and placed the name into the golem’s mouth. That name of God, as revealed to Moses, has this many letters, all of which are consonants.
ANSWER: four [prompt on YHWH or Yahweh or Tetragrammaton by asking “which has how many letters?”] &lt;WC, Mythology&gt;
[10] The golem was said to have been created by this rabbi, who wrote a commentary on the Torah called the Gur Aryeh (“GOOR arr-YEH”), which later influenced the Chabad (“huh-BOD”) movement.
ANSWER: Judah Loew ben Bezalel [or Yehuda Loew; or Yehuda Lev; or Yehuda Leib; or Maharal of Prague; or the Maharal]
[10] Name this mythical being said to have been brought to life to protect Prague’s Jews in the 16th century. After this creature ran amok, its maker removed some paper with God’s name from its body and rendered it lifeless.
ANSWER: golem [or Golem of Prague]

597.
ID: 38468  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 06 | Number: 14
BONUS: The protagonist of a novel is punched in the stomach and conned out of five bucks by a character of this profession named Maurice. For 10 points each:
[10] In this play, Rocky Pioggi vehemently denies that he’s a pimp, and asserts that pimping is just a “side line” apart from his night bartending duties in Harry Hope’s saloon.
ANSWER: The Iceman Cometh (by Eugene O’Neill) &lt;AP, American Literature&gt;
[10] The pimp Mr. Edwards beats his mistress Cathy Ames to a pulp after she reveals her hatred for him in East of Eden, a novel by this American author of The Grapes of Wrath and Of Mice and Men.
ANSWER: John Steinbeck
[10] Name this profession. Iceberg Slim’s autobiography, subtitled “The Story of My Life,” details his experiences working in this profession.
ANSWER: pimp [or procurer; or pander] (The character is Holden Caulfield from The Catcher in the Rye by J. D. Salinger.)

598.
ID: 38469  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 06 | Number: 15
BONUS: A female leader of this group known as Comandante Ramona led this group’s capture of San Cristóbal de las Casas in 1994. For 10 points each:
[10] Though this Mexican president agreed to land reform and indigenous autonomy by signing the 1996 San Andrés Accords with the Zapatistas, his government never fully implemented the Accords.
ANSWER: Ernesto Zedillo [or Ernesto Zedillo Ponce de León] &lt;AE, World History&gt;
[10] The Zapatistas launched their uprising on the day that this trade agreement came into effect. This agreement eliminated most trade barriers between Mexico, the US, and Canada.
ANSWER: NAFTA [or North American Free Trade Agreement]
[10] Name this leftist Mexican guerilla group that controls a large swath of territory in Chiapas (“chee-AHP-us”). This group is named after a general of the Mexican Revolution who issued the agrarian Plan of Ayala (“ah-YAH-la”).
ANSWER: Zapatistas [or Zapatista National Liberation Army or Ejército Zapatista de Liberación Nacional or EZLN]

599.
ID: 38470  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 06 | Number: 16
BONUS: In this experiment, “superordinate goals” reduced conflict between two groups known as the “Rattlers” and the “Eagles.” For 10 points each:
[10] Henri Tajfel (“TYE-fell”) invented this methodological paradigm to study how seemingly arbitrary distinctions can lead to the formation of “in” and “out” groups.
ANSWER: minimal group paradigm &lt;CK, Social Science&gt;
[10] The contact hypothesis contends that intergroup interaction reduces this form of disparate treatment based on group-membership, such as race, gender, and religion.
ANSWER: discrimination [accept word forms; accept prejudice]
[10] Name this seminal experiment in social conflict theory, conducted at a namesake Oklahoma state park by Muzafer Sherif.
ANSWER: Robbers Cave experiment

600.
ID: 38473  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 06 | Number: 19
BONUS: A “massive” version of this thesis is defended in the book <em>The Architecture of the Mind</em> by Peter Carruthers (“ker-OTHERS”). For 10 points each:
[10] This MIT linguist formulated the poverty of the stimulus argument. He formulated transformational generative grammar in his 1957 book Syntactic Structures.
ANSWER: Noam Chomsky &lt;CK, Philosophy&gt;
[10] Fodor’s work on modularity was inspired by this argument against empiricist accounts of language acquisition which holds that children do not receive enough evidence to infer core aspects of language.
ANSWER: poverty of the stimulus [or POS]
[10] Identify this thesis that names a 1983 book by Jerry Fodor. It contends that the mind is composed of systems that are, among other things, domain-specific and informationally encapsulated.
ANSWER: modularity of mind [accept word forms like modular]

601.
ID: 38474  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History Classical
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 06 | Number: 20
BONUS: The “three pedagogues” advised an unpopular ruler during this period who ascended to the throne with the support of Otho, the governor of Lusitania. For 10 points each:
[10] This founder of the Flavian dynasty defeated Vitellius to come to power and ended the year of the Four Emperors. This emperor built the Colosseum on top of the ruins of Nero’s Domus Aurea.
ANSWER: Vespasian [or Titus Flavius Vespasianus] &lt;CK, European History&gt;
[10] Prior to the Year of the Four Emperors, Galba lent his support to a revolt by this governor of Lugdunensis in Gaul, who commited suicide after being defeated by the governor of Germania Superior, Lucius Verginius Rufus.
ANSWER: Gaius Julius Vindex
[10] Name this period of upheaval after the death of Nero during which Galba and Otho briefly reigned.
ANSWER: Year of the Four Emperors [or AD 69 or 69 CE]

602.
ID: 38475  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 07 | Number: 1
BONUS: A particularly complicated type of this art form is called <em>adweneasa</em>, meaning “my skill is exhausted,” requiring the weaver to use three pairs of heddles instead of the usual two. For 10 points each:
[10] The oyokoman kente pattern uses these three colors, lending it an association with independence since they are found on Ghana’s flag. Rastafaris adopted the use of these Pan-African colors from the Ethiopian flag. Name all three.
ANSWER: red, yellow, AND green [accept in any order; accept maroon for “red”; accept gold for “yellow”] &lt;WC, Other Arts&gt;
[10] Kente cloth originated in the village of Bonwire in this country, whose other traditional types of fabric include adinkra. The Akan people sculpted brass weights for use in this modern-day country’s gold trade, which led Britain to call it the Gold Coast.
ANSWER: Ghana
[10] Name this medium made up of interwoven strips of fabric that was originally developed by the Akan people.
ANSWER: kente cloth [or nwentoma]

603.
ID: 38476  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 07 | Number: 2
BONUS: During a failed coup attempt against this leader, state television played <em>Swan Lake</em> on continuous loop. For 10 points each:
[10] Khrushchev once complained to this prima ballerina of the Bolshoi that he saw Swan Lake so many times that the thought of seeing it made him sick. She was famed for her role as Odette-Odile in Swan Lake.
ANSWER: Maya Plisetskaya (“plee-SETS-ka-ya”) &lt;AE, European History&gt;
[10] Swan Lake was also broadcasted on state television following the death of this other Soviet leader in 1982. This successor of Khrushchev established a namesake doctrine to justify the 1968 invasion of Czechoslovakia.
ANSWER: Leonid Brezhnev [or Leonid Ilyich Brezhnev]
[10] Name this leader who survived a coup by the hardline “Gang of Eight.” That coup against this leader was opposed by another politician who was photographed on top of a tank in front of Parliament.
ANSWER: Mikhail Gorbachev [or Mikhail Sergeyevich Gorbachev]

604.
ID: 38477  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 07 | Number: 3
BONUS: Secretion of this hormone is stimulated by gastrin. For 10 points each:
[10] This part of the brain controls thyroid output as part of an axis with the pituitary gland. This structure releases thyrotropin-releasing hormone in response to low levels of thyroid hormone.
ANSWER: hypothalamus &lt;GR, Biology&gt;
[10] Calcitonin is produced by the parafollicular cells of this endocrine gland that also releases iodine-containing T3 and T4 hormones. When this gland becomes enlarged, it is called a goitre (“GOY-ter”).
ANSWER: thyroid
[10] Name this short polypeptide hormone that promotes osteoclast activity and opposes PTH.
ANSWER: calcitonin

605.
ID: 38479  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 07 | Number: 5
BONUS: After this law was passed, the federal government initiated the case <em>United States v. Forty Barrels &amp; Twenty Kegs of Coca-Cola</em>, attempting to force Coca-Cola to remove caffeine from its formula. For 10 points each:
[10] This American chemist enforced the law as head of the USDA’s Bureau of Chemistry. He carried out voluntary “poison squad” studies testing the effects of common preservatives like formaldehyde on the human body.
ANSWER: Harvey Washington Wiley &lt;WC, American History&gt;
[10] The Jungle portrayed the meatpacking industry of this city’s stockyard, which processed 18 million head of livestock during its peak year in 1924. Carl Sandburg coined this city’s nickname of “hog butcher for the world.”
ANSWER: Chicago
[10] Name this consumer protection law that was passed in 1906 after Upton Sinclair exposed the unsanitary conditions of American slaughterhouses in his novel The Jungle.
ANSWER: Pure Food and Drug Act of 1906 [prompt on partial answers]

606.
ID: 38480  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 07 | Number: 6
BONUS: The distinctive bridgeless nose of a ruler of this city appears in a diptych (“DIP-tick”) painting of him and his wife. For 10 points each:
[10] Another painting by Titian shows this figure leaping off a chariot pulled by two cheetahs to rescue a Greek princess. This figure sits surrounded by swarthy men in country clothing in a Velázquez painting titled for his “Triumph.”
ANSWER: Bacchus [prompt on Dionysus; accept Bacchus and Ariadne or The Triumph of Bacchus] &lt;JL, Painting &amp; Sculpture&gt;
[10] This artist showed two maids rummaging through a cassone chest while a curled up dog lies next to the title figure in his Venus of Urbino.
ANSWER: Titian [or Tiziano; or Tiziano Vecelli; or Tiziano Vecellio]
[10] Name this city, one of whose dukes is the subject of several of Piero Della Francesca’s portraits. Rona Goffen argued that a painting commissioned in this city depicts a masturbatory gesture to signify chastity in a work titled for its “problematic patronage.”
ANSWER: Urbino [accept Venus of Urbino]

607.
ID: 38481  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Mythology | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 07 | Number: 7
BONUS: Name a more iconic duo than being Greek and getting kicked off a cliff. For 10 points each:
[10] This father of Theseus was so distressed when he saw that Theseus’s ship had black sails instead of white sails that he threw himself off a cliff. He had earlier buried a sandal, sword, and shield under a rock for Theseus.
ANSWER: Aegeus &lt;JS, Mythology&gt;
[10] Sciron was killed by this hero, who incidentally also died when Lycomedes kicked him off a cliff. His other exploits included attempting to abduct Persephone with his friend Pirithous and slaying the Minotaur.
ANSWER: Theseus
[10] This Isthmian robber made his victims think that they were going to wash his feet, but then kicked them off a cliff into the jaws of a giant sea turtle instead.
ANSWER: Sciron

608.
ID: 38482  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature World
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 07 | Number: 8
BONUS: This story ends with the main character stammering “isn’t life—?” to her brother, who responds, “<em>Isn’t</em> it, darling?” For 10 points each:
[10] The theory that the corpse in “The Garden Party” was inspired by the death of Mansfield’s brother is suggested in No Man’s Land, a book by two feminist literary critics who also wrote the seminal study The Madwoman in the Attic. Name either author.
ANSWER: Sandra Gilbert OR Susan Gubar &lt;AP, British Literature&gt;
[10] This New Zealand-born author’s collection The Garden Party also contains “Miss Brill” and “Bliss.”
ANSWER: Katherine Mansfield [or Kathleen Mansfield Murry]
[10] Name this story in which Laura Sheridan gazes at the face of her dead neighbor Mr. Scott after leaving the title event to drop off a basket of leftovers as condolences.
ANSWER: “The Garden Party”

609.
ID: 38483  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 07 | Number: 9
BONUS: The Fanno line diagram for a flow, which accounts for friction, reaches a point of maximum entropy when this condition occurs. For 10 points each:
[10] One of these phenomena will form if the downstream pressure decreases past the pressure at which the nozzle velocity is sonic. Another type of these phenomena forms when a supersonic flow meets a body and curves as it detaches from the body.
ANSWER: shock waves [accept bow shocks; accept shock fronts] &lt;AP, Physics&gt;
[10] When the hourglass-shaped de Laval nozzle becomes choked, the fluid speed reaches a maximum of this value at the nozzle throat. This speed is equivalent to Mach 1.
ANSWER: speed of sound [or sonic flow velocity; accept Mach 1 until read; do not accept “subsonic” or “supersonic”]
[10] Name this condition in which decreasing downstream pressure with constant upstream pressure does not increase the mass flow rate through a nozzle.
ANSWER: choked flow [accept answers indicating that the Mach number reaches 1 at the throat or exit]

610.
ID: 38485  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 07 | Number: 11
BONUS: This piece opens with the piano introducing and the soloist arpeggiating a gentle, rocking E dominant ninth chord, a cyclic motif that returns in its 3rd and 4th movements, a recitative-fantasia and a canon. For 10 points each:
[10] This composer wrote a solo violin sonata with optional quarter tones for Yehudi Menuhin (“yeh-HOO-dee MEN-yoo-in”) a year after Concerto for Orchestra and a year before his death. This Hungarian ethnomusicologist wrote two violin sonatas and six influential, modern string quartets.
ANSWER: Béla Bartók &lt;OL, Classical Music&gt;
[10] A 1910 Budapest visit influenced this composer’s last piece, a short 1917 violin sonata in a projected set of six sonatas he signed “musicien français” (“myoo-zeese-YANN fron-SAY”), including one for flute, viola, and harp. A cyclic motif unifies his String Quartet in G minor influenced by Grieg and premiered by the Ysaÿe Quartet.
ANSWER: Claude Debussy
[10] Name this chamber piece in A major composed as wedding present for Eugène Ysaÿe (“oo-ZHEN ee-ZYE”), who premiered it from memory in a dark art museum in Brussels in 1886. A cello version of it is by Jules Delsart.
ANSWER: Violin Sonata in A major by César Franck (“say-zar fronk”) [or Franck’s Sonata for Violin and Piano; prompt on partial answer]

611.
ID: 38486  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature World
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 07 | Number: 12
BONUS: This author wrote a story in which the cowherd Yuhanna has his cattle stolen by a group of monks while he is reading the Bible. For 10 points each:
[10] Along with Mikhail Naimy, Gibran led “The Pen League,” an Arab-American literary movement in this city. Around the same time, this city’s neighborhood of Harlem was the focus of an African-American literary movement.
ANSWER: New York City [or NYC] &lt;AP, American Literature&gt;
[10] The title of Gibran’s story about Yuhanna calls him one of these people, one of whom also titles his first English collection of “parables and poems.” A character named for the Arabic word for this sort of person falls in love with Layla in a popular poem by Nizami.
ANSWER: madman [or word forms like mad or madness; or synonyms; accept majnun]
[10] Name this Lebanese author of an English-language book in which Al-Mustafa, the title prophet, delivers discourses on the nature of life to the citizens of Orphalese (“OR-fuh-leez”).
ANSWER: Kahlil Gibran [or Khalil Gibran]

612.
ID: 38487  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 07 | Number: 13
BONUS: Schlenk lines can be used for reactions that require these techniques, and all associated glassware must be prebaked. For 10 points each:
[10] Water can be removed by using a sacrificial excess of magnesium when preparing these reactants. These magnesium halides are used to add carbonyl (“car-bo-NEEL”) groups to organic compounds.
ANSWER: Grignard (“green-YARR”) reagents [or Grignard reactants] &lt;GR, Chemistry&gt;
[10] Air-free reactions typically need to be carried out in an oxygen-free environment, or in the absence of this compound. This compound can be removed by desiccants or molecular sieves, and it is the solvent for aqueous solutions.
ANSWER: water [or H2O accept water-free reactions]
[10] Name this class of techniques for sensitive reactions. Use of a positive pressure glovebox is one technique of this type.
ANSWER: air-free techniques [accept air-free reactions or oxygen-free reactions; accept anything indicating carrying out the reactions in an inert atmosphere; accept, but DO NOT REVEAL, water-free technique/reactions]

613.
ID: 38488  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 07 | Number: 14
BONUS: Many Romance languages exhibit a phenomenon in which these morphemes “climb” to the matrix clause and attach to the matrix verb. For 10 points each:
[10] This Asian language notably lacks inflectional affixes. The Wade–Giles and Pīnyīn systems are used to Romanize this language, which differentiates between homophones through four different tones.
ANSWER: Mandarin Chinese [or Pǔtōnghuà or Guóyǔ or Huáyǔ or Gūanhuà; prompt on Chinese; prompt on Zhōngwén] &lt;CK, Social Science&gt;
[10] Zwicky and Pullum wrote a widely-cited paper contrasting cliticization with this morphological process that produces grammatical variants of a word, such as conjugating a verb or declining a noun.
ANSWER: inflection [or word forms; do not accept or prompt on “derivation”]
[10] Name these morphemes that are pronounced like affixes but have phrase-level syntactic roles. A standard example in English is the contracted forms of the auxiliary verbs in “I’m” and “we’ve.”
ANSWER: clitics

614.
ID: 38489  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 07 | Number: 15
BONUS: According to legend, this king’s army used a pet monitor lizard to reach a fort atop a steep cliff. For 10 points each:
[10] Shivaji was renowned for his tolerance towards this minority religion among his citizens. Akbar combined elements of Hinduism and this official religion of the Mughal Empire to develop the Din-i Ilahi.
ANSWER: Islam [or Muslims] &lt;AP, World History&gt;
[10] Shivaji agreed to become a vassal of this Mughal emperor, who promptly placed Shivaji under house arrest at his court in Agra. This Mughal emperor reimposed the jizya, which had been previously abolished by Akbar.
ANSWER: Aurangzeb [or Alamgir]
[10] Name this founder of the Maratha (“muh-RAH-tuh”) confederacy who took a title meaning “umbrella-lord.” With the Mughal general Jai (“jay”) Singh, he signed the Treaty of Purandar (“poor-UN-duhr”), which made him a Mughal vassal.
ANSWER: Shivaji (“shih-VAH-jee”) Bhosle

615.
ID: 38490  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 07 | Number: 16
BONUS: This church was founded after Bishop Richard Allen and fellow Black worshippers were pulled off of their knees during a worship service in Philadelphia. For 10 points each:
[10] In a 2011 book, James H. Cone contrasted the “Lynching Tree” with this symbol of Christianity, arguing that the tree keeps this method of Jesus’s execution from becoming “a symbol of abstract, sentimental piety.”
ANSWER: cross [or crucifixion or crucify or crucified or other word forms] &lt;WC, Religion&gt;
[10] James H. Cone, a theologian and minister of the AME Church, advocated a “Black” version of this theological movement originating in Latin America that emphasizes the role of the church in advancing social justice.
ANSWER: liberation theology [accept Black liberation theology]
[10] Name this Black church that was formally established in 1816. Henry McNeal Turner, a minister from this church, advocated Black emigration to Africa after serving in the Civil War as the first Black US Army chaplain.
ANSWER: African Methodist Episcopal Church [or AME Church]

616.
ID: 38491  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature Classical
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 07 | Number: 17
BONUS: A poem often ascribed to this author is set while the narrator “sleeps alone” at midnight, when “the moon and the Pleiades have set” and “the time is passing.” For 10 points each:
[10] “The Last Song of Sappho” is a poem from this author’s Canti. This Italian poet’s reflections on the relative merits of Latin and modern Romance languages occupy many pages of his massive set of notes, the Zibaldone (“dzee-ball-DOH-nay”).
ANSWER: Giacomo Leopardi &lt;AP, European Literature&gt;
[10] A recurring Greek literary tale in which Sappho jumps off a rock into the sea after being rejected by Phaon first appeared in a play by this author. This comedic playwright wrote of the grouchy old man Knemon in Dyskolos.
ANSWER: Menander [or Menandros]
[10] Name this female Greek poet from Lesbos who wrote of an “iridescent-throned” goddess descending in a chariot pulled by sparrows in the “Hymn to Aphrodite.”
ANSWER: Sappho [or Psappha]

617.
ID: 38492  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Current Events | Subcategory: Current Events Other
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 07 | Number: 18
BONUS: In 2009, this surgeon wrote <em>The Checklist Manifesto</em>, using an anecdote about a man who was stabbed by a bayonet at a Halloween party to argue for using checklists in making complex decisions. For 10 points each:
[10] This CEO represented Amazon in the venture. In October 2018, he was praised by Bernie Sanders after he announced that US-based Amazon employees would receive a 15-dollar minimum wage starting in November 2018.
ANSWER: Jeff Bezos &lt;WC, Other&gt;
[10] This current CEO of JPMorgan Chase lent his support to Gawande’s venture. After the murder of Jamal Khashoggi (“ka-SHOOK-chee”), he pulled out of the October 2018 “Davos (“da-VOSE”) in the Desert” conference sponsored by Saudi Arabia.
ANSWER: Jamie Dimon (“DYE-mun”)
[10] Name this Indian-American surgeon who founded Ariadne Labs to encourage health systems innovation. In June 2018, he was named CEO of a joint health venture by Amazon, Berkshire Hathaway, and JPMorgan Chase.
ANSWER: Atul Gawande (“GAH-wun-day”)

618.
ID: 38494  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Other
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 07 | Number: 20
BONUS: In the lake effect, large amounts of this substance form as the result of cold air moving over the warm waters of a lake. For 10 points each:
[10] In 2017, the NSF-supported SNOWIE experiment in Idaho attempted to evaluate the effectiveness of seeding clouds using this compound, which has a crystalline structure similar to ice.
ANSWER: silver iodide [or AgI] &lt;WC, Other Science: Earth Science&gt;
[10] This diagram displays the types of snowflakes that form as temperature and water vapor supersaturation are varied. It is named after a Japanese scientist who created the first snowflake classification system.
ANSWER: Nakaya diagram [or Ukichiro Nakaya; or snow crystal morphology diagram]
[10] Name this form of precipitation that comes in shapes like stellar dendrites, needles, and capped columns. Ablation removes this substance from the surface of a glacier.
ANSWER: snow [or snowflakes; prompt on ice]

619.
ID: 38495  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 08 | Number: 1
BONUS: This polymer is synthesized by membrane-located rosette complexes. For 10 points each:
[10] Unlike cellulose, hemicellulose includes many different sugar monomers, including one with this many carbon atoms. Sugars with this many carbon atoms are components of RNA and DNA nucleotides.
ANSWER: five [or 5; accept pentoses] &lt;GR, Biology&gt;
[10] This other polysaccharide is similar to cellulose, but has a branched structure that helps it contribute to cell wall strength. Along with pectin, it is intertwined with microfibrils.
ANSWER: hemicellulose
[10] Name this ubiquitous unbranched polymer of D-glucose, a major component of plant cell walls.
ANSWER: cellulose

620.
ID: 38496  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Computer Science
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 08 | Number: 2
BONUS: Adam Elga introduced this puzzle in a short 2000 paper that uses self-locating beliefs to argue for its “thirder” answer. For 10 points each:
[10] Ian Hacking used Bayesian decision theory to analyze this argument from the Pensées (“pon-SAY”). It contends that you should live as though God exists since you are only risking a finite amount of utility for a potentially infinite amount.
ANSWER: Pascal’s wager &lt;CK, Philosophy&gt;
[10] Since Beauty cannot learn the probability that she was awakened once by conditionalizing on her priors, many view the problem as an objection to this man’s namesake non-frequentist interpretation of probability.
ANSWER: Thomas Bayes [accept Bayesianism]
[10] Identify this decision-theoretic puzzle concerning an individual who is put to sleep for two days and then is awakened one or twice depending on the flip of a coin.
ANSWER: Sleeping Beauty problem

621.
ID: 38497  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 08 | Number: 3
BONUS: After hearing this musician perform Mendelssohn’s Violin Concerto, Fritz Kreisler supposedly exclaimed “Well gentlemen, we might as well break our violins across our knees!” For 10 points each:
[10] Both Heifetz and fellow Lithuanian Yehudi Menuhin (“yeh-HOO-dee MEN-yoo-in”) primarily used Guarneri (“gwar-NAIR-ee”) violins, though both owned violins created by a member of this family that are often associated with superior sound quality.
ANSWER: Stradivari [or Stradivarius; prompt on Strad] &lt;AE, Classical Music&gt;
[10] Heifetz championed the Violin Concerto in D major by this Austrian composer who fled to Hollywood after his music and operas, like Die tote Stadt (“dee TOH-tuh SHTOTT”), were banned. The concerto quotes his classic film scores, of which Robin Hood and Kings Row later inspired John Williams.
ANSWER: Erich Wolfgang Korngold
[10] Name this Lithuanian-born violin virtuoso whose debut at Carnegie Hall in 1917 as a teenager catapulted him to fame across America. This man’s transcription of Hora staccato has become a popular violin showpiece.
ANSWER: Jascha Heifetz (“YA-shah HIGH-fits”)

622.
ID: 38498  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature World
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 08 | Number: 4
BONUS: <em>Description acceptable</em>. Excerpts from these works intersperse a frame story called <em>Free Women</em> in the novel in which they appear. For 10 points each:
[10] Lessing was a staunch defender of her friend and mentor Idries Shah, who came under fire for publishing an allegedly fake English translation of this collection of Farsi quatrains by Omar Khayyam.
ANSWER: the Rubáiyát [or Ruba’iyāt] &lt;AP, World/Other Literature&gt;
[10] In this Iranian-born British author’s novel The Golden Notebook, Anna Wulf attempts to combine her diaries into the title volume. This author also wrote the Canopus in Argos science fiction series.
ANSWER: Doris Lessing
[10] Name this set of fictional works, the “black” one of which details their author’s time in Africa. Their author’s alter ego Ella is the focus of the “yellow” one, whereas the “red” one describes their author’s communist ideals.
ANSWER: Anna’s notebooks [or Anna Wulf’s notebooks; or notebooks from The Golden Notebook; prompt on notebooks by asking “please also give the novel in which they appear or their fictional author”; accept journals, diaries, memoirs, logs, or records in place of “notebooks”]

623.
ID: 38499  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Mythology | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 08 | Number: 5
BONUS: The Thriae were three nymphs who had the heads of women and the bodies of these creatures. For 10 points each:
[10] According to Pausanias, a trail of bees revealed the daimon Trophonius’s hiding spot in one of these places, which then became an oracle dedicated to him. The Kouretes danced outside one of these places where the infant Zeus was nurtured by Amalthea.
ANSWER: caves [or caverns; prompt on mountains] &lt;JS, Mythology&gt;
[10] In another story, this inventor of beekeeping sought help for his dying swarm of bees from the fountain Arethusa, who instructed him to obtain new bees from the carcasses of sacrificed cattle.
ANSWER: Aristaeus
[10] Name these insects, which the nymph Melissa used to feed the infant Zeus. Because they were made with a certain substance produced by these insects, Icarus’s wings melted when he flew too close to the Sun.
ANSWER: bees [or honeybees]

624.
ID: 38500  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 08 | Number: 6
BONUS: Answer the following about the report of the Bergier commission, a panel of historians who investigated the actions of Switzerland before, during, and after World War II, for 10 points each.
[10] The report stated that Swiss participation at a conference on Jewish refugees held in this French town aimed to take in as few refugees as possible. This town also names a treaty that ended the Algerian War of Independence.
ANSWER: Évian (“ayv-YAWN”) [accept the Évian conference or the Évian Accords] &lt;AP, European History&gt;
[10] The report examined the role of the Swiss in purchasing confiscated art that had been given this name by the Nazis. This derogatory name was applied to Cubist and Expressionist works displayed in a namesake exhibition.
ANSWER: degenerate art [or Entartete Kunst]
[10] The report found that Swiss insurers complied with a German demand that payments to the victims of this pogrom should go to the Nazi state and not the Jews, many of whom had their businesses’ windows smashed.
ANSWER: Kristallnacht [or Crystal Night or Night of Broken Glass or Reichskristallnacht or Pogromnacht or November Pogrom]

625.
ID: 38501  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Math
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 08 | Number: 7
BONUS: For a polynomial <em>x</em>-to-the-<em>n</em> minus one over a field, this field extension is given by the <em>n</em>th cyclotomic extension of that field. For 10 points each:
[10] The roots of unity lie on this conic section with unit radius. This figure is defined as all the points in the plane equidistant from a given point.
ANSWER: circle [accept unit circle] &lt;CK, Other Science: Mathematics&gt;
[10] The cyclotomic extensions of a field are obtained by adjoining these values to that field. These values are the solutions to the equation z-to-the-n equals one.
ANSWER: roots of unity [or nth roots of unity; or de Moivre numbers]
[10] Name this smallest field extension in which a polynomial can be decomposed into linear factors.
ANSWER: splitting field

626.
ID: 38503  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 08 | Number: 9
BONUS: In 1925, the General Election Law was passed during the reign of this monarch, extending the right to vote to all males over the age of 25. For 10 points each:
[10] Taishō was succeeded by this emperor, whose reign saw increasing militarism in Japan and the outbreak of World War II. He announced Japan’s surrender in the Jewel Voice Broadcast.
ANSWER: Hirohito [or Shōwa] &lt;AE, World History&gt;
[10] During Taishō’s reign, this 1923 natural disaster leveled much of Tokyo, though not Frank Lloyd Wright’s Imperial Hotel. This natural disaster was followed by a massacre of over 6,000 Koreans.
ANSWER: Great Kantō earthquake [or Kantō dai-jishin; prompt on earthquake]
[10] Name this Japanese emperor whose reign from 1912 to 1926 was a period of political liberalism known as his namesake “democracy.”
ANSWER: Taishō [or Yoshihito]

627.
ID: 38505  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 08 | Number: 11
BONUS: This quantity is larger for isotopes on “islands of stability.” For 10 points each:
[10] The mass defect is predicted by this theory, which sets the rest energy of the nucleus equal to mc-squared. This theory also predicts time dilation and length contraction.
ANSWER: special theory of relativity [or SR; prompt on relativity; do not accept “general relativity” or “GR”] &lt;GR, Physics&gt;
[10] The mass defect is larger for nuclei with a magic number of protons or neutrons according to the nuclear shell model. This Nobel laureate developed the modern version of the nuclear shell model.
ANSWER: Maria Goeppert-Mayer
[10] Name this quantity that corresponds to the binding energy of the constituent protons and neutrons divided by c-squared.
ANSWER: mass defect [prompt on partial answer]

628.
ID: 38506  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 08 | Number: 12
BONUS: John Winterstraw describes a shipwrecked boating party encountering enormous crabs and human-shaped plants in this body of water in the novel <em>The Boats of the “Glen Carrig”</em>. For 10 points each:
[10] This Ezra Pound poem begins by noting “Your mind and you are our Sargasso Sea.” Its title is the French translation of a T. S. Eliot poem whose title character repeats the refrain, “I shall sit here, serving tea to friends.”
ANSWER: “Portrait d’une Femme” (“por-TRAY dune FAM”) [do not accept or prompt on “Portrait of a Lady”] &lt;AP, British Literature&gt;
[10] Jean Rhys wrote Wide Sargasso Sea as a prequel to Charlotte Brontë’s novel titled for this character, a governess who discovers Bertha Mason in Edward Rochester’s attic.
ANSWER: Jane Eyre [accept either underlined name]
[10] Name this body of water, the setting of many horror stories by William Hope Hodgson. A novel by Jean Rhys (“jeen reese”) titled for this body of water describes the forced solitary confinement of Antoinette Cosway in an English estate by her unnamed husband.
ANSWER: Sargasso Sea [accept Sargasso Sea Stories or Wide Sargasso Sea]

629.
ID: 38507  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 08 | Number: 13
BONUS: The British writer Edith Durham was known for her travelogues promoting this country’s culture in the early 20th century, including one titled <em>High</em> [this country]. For 10 points each:
[10] In 1914, Albania and Greece signed a protocol on this Greek island, giving autonomy to Albania’s Greek minority. This Ionian island has a New Fortress that was built during its time as a Venetian colony.
ANSWER: Corfu [or Kerkyra; or Korkyra] &lt;AP, Other&gt;
[10] Gjirokastër is notable for its large population of this ethnic group, which inhabits the historical region of Epirus. The two main ethnic groups of Cyprus are Turks in the north and this group in the south.
ANSWER: Greeks [or Ellinas or Hellenes]
[10] Name this European country whose UNESCO World Heritage sites include the cities of Buthrotum and Gjirokastër (“jee-roh-KAH-ster”). Krujë (“KROO-yuh”) Castle in this country houses its Skanderbeg Museum.
ANSWER: Albania [or Shqipëria; or Republika e Shqipërisë]

630.
ID: 38508  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Other
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 08 | Number: 14
BONUS: In the 1950s, Kenneth Oakley used fluorine dating to establish that this thing was a hoax. For 10 points each:
[10] Both Taung Child and Piltdown Man were used to support this theory that was originally proposed by Charles Darwin in On the Origin of Species. Thomas Huxley debated Samuel Wilberforce over this theory in 1860.
ANSWER: evolution [accept natural selection; accept human evolution] &lt;AE, European History&gt;
[10] A mistaken belief in the genuineness of the Piltdown Man led some scientists to dismiss this fossil of Australopithecus africanus, identified in 1924 by Raymond Dart as a primitive hominin, as a fake.
ANSWER: Taung Child
[10] Name this supposed fossil specimen that the amateur geologist Charles Dawson promoted as a missing link between apes and humans. This specimen really consisted of a human’s cranium and an orangutan’s jaw.
ANSWER: Piltdown Man [accept Eoanthropus dawsoni or Dawson’s dawn man]

631.
ID: 38509  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Religion | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 08 | Number: 15
BONUS: <em>Two answers required.</em> These two foods are the subject of an annual humorous debate first held at the University of Chicago, which has featured such participants as Milton Friedman and Martha Nussbaum. For 10 points each:
[10] Another Hanukkah tradition is playing with the dreidel, whose four letters nun, gimmel, hey, and shin can be interpreted numerically using this system to get 358, which is also the numerical interpretation of “Messiah.”
ANSWER: gematria (“geh-MAH-tree-uh”) [or gematriot; prompt on Kabbalah] &lt;WC, Religion&gt;
[10] Hanukkah and the eating of latkes commemorate a miracle in which a small jar of this substance burned for eight days instead of one. Samuel anointed David’s head with this substance when crowning David king.
ANSWER: oil [or shemen; accept any specific types of oil]
[10] Name these two festive Jewish foods. One is a potato pancake eaten during Hanukkah, and the other is a triangular pastry eaten during Purim.
ANSWER: latkes (“LOT-kuhs”) AND hamantaschen (“HOM-in-TAH-shin”) [accept Haman’s ears or oznei haman in place of “hamantaschen”]

632.
ID: 38510  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 08 | Number: 16
BONUS: This artist depicted the title figure standing in the prow of his boat, while a mother and child gather dandelions behind him, in his painting <em>The Poor Fisherman</em>. For 10 points each:
[10] A red-haired woman in a tutu rides a horse in a Toulouse-Lautrec painting set at one of these places. Georges Seurat painted acrobats performing at one of these places.
ANSWER: circuses [or Circus Fernando] &lt;CK, Painting &amp; Sculpture&gt;
[10] This artist depicted himself with his back turned to the viewer urinating in his parody of Puvis’s The Sacred Grove. A woman’s face appears greenish under a gaslight in his painting At the Moulin Rouge.
ANSWER: Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec (“too-LOOZ lo-TREK”)
[10] Name this French artist who painted an enormous landscape in the Sorbonne depicting an ancient portico beside a woodland lake surrounded by conversing Muses, entitled The Sacred Grove.
ANSWER: Pierre Puvis de Chavannes (“pyoo-VEE duh sha-VAHN”)

633.
ID: 38511  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 08 | Number: 17
BONUS: If you were a Union general in the Civil War, testifying before the Joint Committee on the Conduct of the War was pretty much your worst nightmare. Answer some questions about the Committee, for 10 points each.
[10] The committee was chaired by Benjamin Wade, who co-sponsored a bill with Henry Davis that would have required a majority of citizens in Confederate states to perform this action before readmitting them into the Union.
ANSWER: take a loyalty oath [accept any answer that describes people pledging loyalty or pledging alegiance] &lt;CK, American History&gt;
[10] The committee leaked testimony from John C. Frémont to build support for his reappointment after Lincoln sacked him in 1861 for doing this action in Missouri. This action was accomplished nationwide with the passage of the Thirteenth Amendment.
ANSWER: freeing slaves [or emancipation or emancipating slaves or emancipate slaves; or anything that suggests ending slavery or abolishing slavery; accept involuntary servitude in place of “slaves” or “slavery”]
[10] The committee was founded after this disastrous 1861 attempt to seize a strategic position on the Potomac. At this battle, Edward Baker became the only US Senator to ever die in combat.
ANSWER: Battle of Ball’s Bluff

634.
ID: 38512  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 08 | Number: 18
BONUS: A queen whose husband dies during a lion hunt teaches this character about the <em>grun-tu-molani</em>, the inner desire to live. For 10 points each:
[10] More explicit references to Don Quixote, such as a Scottish terrier named Dulcinea, appear in this Puerto Rican author’s Spanglish novel Yo-Yo Boing!
ANSWER: Giannina Braschi &lt;AP, American Literature&gt;
[10] Saul Bellow’s novel Henderson the Rain King often attracts comparisons to this Miguel Cervantes novel, whose character of Sancho Panzo resembles Henderson’s guide Romilayu.
ANSWER: Don Quixote
[10] Name this character who builds a bomb to kill all the frogs in a reservoir that ends up also destroying the reservoir itself. He later earns his title nickname, “the Rain King,” after he carries and whips a huge statue.
ANSWER: Eugene Henderson [accept Henderson the Rain King; prompt on Sungo]

635.
ID: 38513  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 08 | Number: 19
BONUS: Answer the following about molecular machines. For 10 points each:
[10] This scientist developed a synthetic route to catenanes using ring-closing metathesis. He also developed a ruthenium-based catalyst for olefin metathesis.
ANSWER: Robert H. Grubbs [accept Grubbs catalyst] &lt;GR, Chemistry&gt;
[10] J.-P. Sauvage characterized these molecules, which can act as switches when they include viologens groups. NMR measures the relative rotation of these interlocked macrocyclic molecules, which are distinct from knotanes and molecular borromean rings.
ANSWER: catenanes
[10] Although its first iteration did not include molecular motors, a “nano car” developed at Rice University includes these groups consisting of 60 carbon atoms. These roughly spherical molecules make contact with a gold surface in the “car” design.
ANSWER: fullerenes [or Buckminsterfullerenes; or Buckyballs]

636.
ID: 38514  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 08 | Number: 20
BONUS: Amartya Sen argued that this sort of event in Bengal was caused by a combination of a lack of democratic governance and inefficiencies in distribution, rather than “absolute scarcity.” For 10 points each:
[10] This anthropologist critiqued the “development discourse fantasy” for making political decisions appear to be as if they were “technical solutions to technical problems” in his book The Anti-Politics Machine.
ANSWER: James Ferguson &lt;CK, Social Science&gt;
[10] Arturo Escobar wrote the need for “pluriverses” in a book titled after “encountering” this concept. Life expectancy, education, and per capita income are factors used to calculate a namesake index for this concept.
ANSWER: human development [accept human development index]
[10] Name these shortages of food, one of which took place in Bengal in 1943. Olivier Rubin re-examined the evidence in his book titled after democracy and these events.
ANSWER: famines [accept hunger or starvation]

637.
ID: 38516  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 09 | Number: 2
BONUS: During this ecumenical council, Leo I sent a letter called his “Tome,” written to Flavian, the Patriarch of Constantinople, in response to the excommunication of Eutyches. For 10 points each:
[10] The Council of Chalcedon approved a creed that had been promulgated at this first ecumenical council, which declared that the Son is of one substance, or homoousios (“ho-mo-OO-see-os”), with the Father.
ANSWER: First Council of Nicaea [accept Nicene Creed; do not accept “Second Council of Nicaea”] &lt;AE, European History&gt;
[10] The Council of Chalcedon was convoked by this Eastern Roman emperor, who stopped the payment of tribute to the Huns. He married Theodosius II’s sister Pulcheria to continue the Theodosian dynasty.
ANSWER: Marcian [or Flavius Marcianus Augustus]
[10] Name this ecumenical council which declared that Christ had two natures, human and divine, condemning Monophysitism as a heresy. This council caused the separation of the Coptic Orthodox Church.
ANSWER: Council of Chalcedon

638.
ID: 38517  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 09 | Number: 3
BONUS: Mark Twain referred to a depiction of one of these animals as “the most mournful and moving piece of stone in the world.” For 10 points each:
[10] British artist Edwin Landseer sculpted four lions flanking the base of this monument in Trafalgar Square in London.
ANSWER: Nelson’s Column &lt;GR, Painting &amp; Sculpture&gt;
[10] This American sculpted two lions for a Civil War memorial for the main staircase of the Boston Public Library. He made a relief honoring Robert Shaw and the African-American 54th Massachusetts Infantry.
ANSWER: Augustus Saint-Gaudens
[10] Name these animals that Bertel Thorvaldsen sculpted as a monument to Swiss Guards massacred during the French Revolution.
ANSWER: lions [accept the Lion of Lucerne]

639.
ID: 38518  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 09 | Number: 4
BONUS: After using a ladder connected to one of these structures for the second time in his life, a character cries upon smelling autumn fragrances and observing constellations above him. For 10 points each:
[10] Cheever published “The Swimmer” and many of his other stories in this Manhattan-based magazine. Condé Nast publishes this magazine, whose covers often depict Eustace Tilley.
ANSWER: The New Yorker &lt;AP, American Literature&gt;
[10] Neddy Merrill swims through his neighbors’ suburban pools in “The Swimmer,” a story by this author. This Pulitzer-winning “Chekhov of the suburbs” also wrote a novel series about the Wapshots.
ANSWER: John Cheever
[10] Name this type of structure. A character who thinks of himself as a “legendary figure” nicknames a series of these structures that he sees through “a cartographer’s eye” after his wife Lucinda.
ANSWER: swimming pools [accept specific pools like the Westerhazys’ pool or the Grahams’ pool]

640.
ID: 38519  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 09 | Number: 5
BONUS: Answer the following about the Hindu devotional poet Tulsīdās (“tul-see-DAHS”), who is notable for writing in vernacular. For 10 points each:
[10] Tulsīdās adapted the Rāmāyana into the Gītāvalī (“gee-TAH-vuh-lee”), which is a collection of these works. The word gītā literally refers to one of these works, which are based on rāgas and have varieties like bhajana (“BUH-juh-nuh”) and kīrtana (“KEER-tuh-nuh”).
ANSWER: songs [or singing or gāna; or hymns; or melodies or melody; accept chants; prompt on music] &lt;AP, Religion&gt;
[10] Tulsīdās’s adaptation of the Rāmāyana is used in a folk festivity whose name pairs “Rām” with this Sanskrit word. This word, often translated as “play” or “sport,” also refers to interactions between Brahman (“BRUM-hun”) and the world.
ANSWER: līlā (“LEE-lah”) [or Rāmlīlā; or Rāma Līlā] (The adaptation is the Rāmcharitmānas.)
[10] Tulsīdās’s most popular work today is a forty-verse poem in praise of this monkey-like god that describes his devotion towards Rāma. The poem also mentions this god’s attempt to eat the Sun.
ANSWER: Hanumān [accept Hanumān Chālīsa (“huh-noo-MAHN chah-LEE-suh”)]

641.
ID: 38520  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 09 | Number: 6
BONUS: In this Supreme Court case, Chief Justice John Marshall put forth his principle that “the power to tax involves the power to destroy.” For 10 points each:
[10] Biddle succeeded this politician as president of the Bank of the United States. Later, he advocated Southern secession at the 1850 Nashville Conference, declaring “The Rubicon is passed – the Union is already dissolved.”
ANSWER: Langdon Cheves &lt;WC, American History&gt;
[10] This financier served as the president of the Second Bank of the United States. He was attacked in a political cartoon showing him at the center of a multi-headed monster fighting against Andrew Jackson.
ANSWER: Nicholas Biddle
[10] Name this Supreme Court case, which found that Congress had authority to charter the Second Bank of the United States, and that a certain state’s taxation of the bank was a form of unconstitutional interference.
ANSWER: McCulloch v. Maryland [prompt on Maryland]

642.
ID: 38521  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Other
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 09 | Number: 7
BONUS: The age of these general objects is inferred by comparing their constituents to theoretical isochrones plotted on HR diagrams. For 10 points each:
[10] These star clusters tend to have a “fluffy” appearance and younger, hotter stars with lower color indices than their denser counterparts.
ANSWER: open clusters &lt;GR, Other Science: Astronomy&gt;
[10] This variable is normally higher for young stars. The peak wavelength of a blackbody spectrum is inversely proportional to this variable, which is inferred from the color index.
ANSWER: temperature [accept color temperature]
[10] Name these gravitationally bound groups of stars, contrasted with associations, that tend to have similar metallicity since they formed from the same material.
ANSWER: star clusters [accept, but DO NOT REVEAL, open clusters or globular clusters]

643.
ID: 38522  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 09 | Number: 8
BONUS: This book follows a group started by Dorothy Martin, who founded a UFO cult after claiming to have received a message from the planet Clarion telling them that “spacemen” would take them away. For 10 points each:
[10] Festinger has been credited with challenging the then-dominant psychological school of behaviorism, which was championed by this psychologist who created an operant conditioning chamber called his namesake “box.”
ANSWER: B. F. Skinner [or Burrhus Frederic Skinner; accept Skinner box] &lt;JH, Social Science&gt;
[10] When Prophecy Fails was co-written by this psychologist, Henry Riecken, and Stanley Schachter. In addition to his study of cognitive dissonance, this psychologist pioneered social comparison theory.
ANSWER: Leon Festinger
[10] Name this book that was written by a group of researchers who infiltrated a UFO cult in Chicago called the Seekers. This book examined the UFO cultists’ feelings of cognitive dissonance.
ANSWER: When Prophecy Fails [or When Prophecy Fails: A Social and Psychological Study of a Modern Group That Predicted the Destruction of the World]

644.
ID: 38523  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 09 | Number: 9
BONUS: Three of this composer’s symphonies are based on the albums that form David Bowie’s (“BOH-ee’s”) <em>Berlin Trilogy</em>. For 10 points each:
[10] Glass’s symphony of this number, based on Bowie’s Lodger, premiered in 2019, and his piece Music in [this many] Parts is in fact for ten musicians, as its title refers to it having this many movements. This is the number of notes in each repeated bar of Steve Reich’s Piano Phase and the number of repeats of each bar of Clapping Music.
ANSWER: twelve [or 12; accept Music in Twelve Parts or Symphony No. 12] &lt;JN, Classical Music&gt;
[10] Glass composed the score for this experimental film, in which the track “Pruit Igoe” is played during the destruction of the namesake housing complex. Its title means “life out of balance” in Hopi.
ANSWER: Koyaanisqatsi (“ko-yah-niss-KAHT-see”)
[10] Name this American minimalist composer whose Portrait Trilogy of operas includes Einstein on the Beach.
ANSWER: Philip Glass [or Philip Morris Glass]

645.
ID: 38524  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 09 | Number: 10
BONUS: This monarch, who was raised in the castle of Guimarães (“ghee-mah-RYE’sh”), was assisted in the capture of Évora by the mercenary Gerald the Fearless. For 10 points each:
[10] The Battle of Ourique and the capture of Santarém was part of this larger campaign by Christian Spanish and Portuguese kingdoms to drive the Muslim Moors out of the Iberian peninsula.
ANSWER: Reconquista [or Reconquest] &lt;AP, European History&gt;
[10] Afonso I, the first king of Portugal, seized Santarém from this Islamic dynasty. This dynasty, which was overthrown by the Almohads, also lost the Battle of Ourique (“oh-REEK”) to Afonso I.
ANSWER: Almoravid Dynasty [or Al-Murabitun]
[10] Name this monarch who won independence for his kingdom from Léon in a campaign that saw him defeat his mother Teresa at the Battle of São Mamede (“muh-MEH-dih”).
ANSWER: Afonso I [or Afonso Henriques or Afonso the Conqueror; accept Alfonso I of Portugal; prompt on Alfonso I with “Alfonso I of what kingdom?”]

646.
ID: 38525  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 09 | Number: 11
BONUS: Glow-worms dramatically light a dice game played in the “soft juicy vegetation” of this place that is punctuated by the repeated appearance of a herd of “cropper” ponies. For 10 points each:
[10] In Hardy’s The Return of the Native, the heath residents celebrate Guy Fawkes Day with a massive bonfire of furze atop Rainbarrow Hill. Guy Fawkes Day also appears in this other Victorian author’s novel The Way of All Flesh, in which it prompts Ernest’s classmates to burn his father in effigy.
ANSWER: Samuel Butler &lt;JH, British Literature&gt;
[10] Egdon Heath, the setting of The Return of the Native, is also mentioned in this other novel by Thomas Hardy, in which a portion of it is owned by a family to whom the title girl believes she may be related, the d’Urbervilles.
ANSWER: Tess of the d’Urbervilles
[10] Name this place that is inhabited by workers whose “Tartarean” labor of carrying bundles of furze is repeatedly described in a novel in which a man who formerly worked as a diamond merchant in Paris upsets his new wife by taking up work as a furze-cutter here.
ANSWER: Egdon Heath [accept the heath in The Return of the Native; prompt on the heath alone by asking “from what novel?”]

647.
ID: 38526  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 09 | Number: 12
BONUS: These organisms are paradoxically diverse, seeming to violate the principle of competitive exclusion. For 10 points each:
[10] The PEG model of ecological succession takes into account factors described by these two terms that indicate relative trophic level. One refers to pressure due to competition for resources, while the other refers to pressure exerted by predators.
ANSWER: top-down AND bottom-up factors &lt;GR, Biology&gt;
[10] The PEG model for plankton in an idealized lake divides this process into 24 stages. Plankton undergo this process due to seasonal changes, and in general this process follows a disturbance and leads to the creation of a stable community.
ANSWER: ecological succession
[10] Name this group of aquatic organisms that includes a “phyto” type, which are primary producers.
ANSWER: plankton [accept phytoplankton]

648.
ID: 38527  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Mythology | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 09 | Number: 13
BONUS: Answer the following about the mixing of Buddhist and Shinto mythology in Japan, for 10 points each.
[10] This syncretic god’s priests at the Osa shrine extended his protection to a Buddhist temple in Nara at the same time he was declared a bosatsu. He is also identified with the Emperor Ojin and the Amida Buddha.
ANSWER: Hachiman &lt;JS, Mythology&gt;
[10] Vaiśravaṇa, one of Four Heavenly Kings of Buddhist myth who watch over these things, became the popular god Bishamon in Japan. The Four Symbols represent these things in Chinese myth, and Horus’s sons personified them in Egyptian myth.
ANSWER: the cardinal directions
[10] Some efforts to syncretize Japanese Buddhism with Shinto equated the buddha Vairocana with Amaterasu, the Shinto goddess of this domain. The Japanese names for Japan, Nippon (“neep-PONE”) and Nihon (“nee-HONE”), refer to this celestial object.
ANSWER: the Sun

649.
ID: 38528  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature Other
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 09 | Number: 14
BONUS: This poem mocks its dedicatee Richard Howard by challenging him to “comb” “learned journals” for the name of a “minor lion attending on Gérôme” who painted an Oriental harem. For 10 points each:
[10] The poem’s protagonist wonders “how much of the sun-ripe original” Valéry poem this author “made himself forgo” in his German translation, which is quoted in the poem’s epigraph. This author wrote The Duino Elegies.
ANSWER: Rainer Maria Rilke (“RILL-kuh”) &lt;AP, World/Other Literature&gt;
[10] In the poem, a puzzle piece shaped like one of these objects reminds the protagonist of a Paul Valéry poem. A different poem about a “boy too far from town to learn baseball” claims, “one could do worse than be a swinger” of these objects.
ANSWER: trees [accept specific types like birch trees or palm trees] (The poem is “Birches” by Robert Frost.)
[10] Name this James Merrill poem in which a young boy assembles a jigsaw puzzle with the guidance of a “Mademoiselle, / In real life a widow since Verdun.”
ANSWER: “Lost in Translation”

650.
ID: 38529  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 09 | Number: 15
BONUS: This musician riffed on classical sonata form in an album that opens with the track “Shhh/Peaceful,” which he recorded with a band that included Wayne Shorter and Joe Zawinul (“ZAV-in-ool”). For 10 points each:
[10] After his stint with Davis, Bennie Maupin joined this musician’s Mwandishi Sextet. His band the Headhunters recorded the fusion standards “Chameleon” and “Watermelon Man.”
ANSWER: Herbie Hancock &lt;AE, Other Arts&gt;
[10] Four tracks from Bitches Brew feature Bennie Maupin playing this unusual instrument. Eric Dolphy popularized this non-flute instrument, which he played on the first two tracks of his album Out to Lunch!
ANSWER: bass clarinet [prompt on clarinet]
[10] Name this jazz trumpeter whose fusion album Bitches Brew includes a track entitled this musician “Runs the Voodoo Down.”
ANSWER: Miles Davis

651.
ID: 38530  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 09 | Number: 16
BONUS: Tollens’ reagent oxidizes these compounds, leading to precipitation of elemental silver. For 10 points each:
[10] Performing ozonolysis on one of these compounds produces a nitrosamine. These compounds, which contain a nonterminal nitrogen–nitrogen double bond, can be formed in coupling reactions where a related ion acts as an electrophile.
ANSWER: azo compounds &lt;GR, Chemistry&gt;
[10] Aldehydes can be produced from alkenes via this process. The mechanism of this reaction, which is induced by a triatomic molecule, includes a zwitterionic Criegee (“KREE-gay”) intermediate.
ANSWER: ozonolysis
[10] Name these carbonyl (“car-bo-NEEL”) compounds that are contrasted with ketones because their carbonyl group is at the end of the chain.
ANSWER: aldehydes

652.
ID: 38531  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 09 | Number: 17
BONUS: During the early years of this country’s independence, it experienced intense political rivalries between the Liberal Party based in León and the Conservative Party based in Granada. For 10 points each:
[10] After Walker’s overthrow, the Conservatives held power until the election of this Liberal politician. During his presidency, US Marines landed in Bluefields after he executed two mercenaries from America.
ANSWER: José Santos Zelaya &lt;AE, World History&gt;
[10] In 1854, a civil war in Nicaragua caused the Liberals to invite this American filibuster to become president. He was ousted from office and was ultimately executed by Honduras after trying to take over the Bay Islands.
ANSWER: William Walker
[10] Name this country whose capital, Managua, was designed as a compromise between León and Granada.
ANSWER: Nicaragua

653.
ID: 38532  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Philosophy | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 09 | Number: 18
BONUS: Jaegwon Kim argued that this account fails to explain why minds are always attached to the particular bodies with which they casually interact, an objection that he dubbed the “pairing problem.” For 10 points each:
[10] Donald Davidson argued for this view akin to property dualism according to which mental events are identical to physical events, even though there are no strict psycho-physical laws.
ANSWER: anomalous monism [do not accept or prompt on “monism”] &lt;CK, Philosophy&gt;
[10] This philosopher likened dualism to the “ghost in the machine” in his magnum opus The Concept of Mind.
ANSWER: Gilbert Ryle
[10] Name this view championed by René Descartes which states that the mind and body are distinct substances.
ANSWER: dualism [or substance dualism; or property dualism; or Cartesian dualism]

654.
ID: 38533  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 09 | Number: 19
BONUS: A book written by this scientist inspired Frederic Edwin Church to retrace this scientist’s steps and paint the landscape <em>The Heart of the Andes</em> in 1859. For 10 points each:
[10] Humboldt climbed Mount Chimborazo during a scientific expedition to this European nation’s colonies in South America, having received permission to travel freely from this country’s Charles IV.
ANSWER: Spain [or España] &lt;WC, Other&gt;
[10] In the background of The Heart of the Andes is this mountain, which Humboldt drew cross-sectionally to show the plants at various altitudes. This Ecuadorian mountain is the farthest point from the Earth’s center.
ANSWER: Mount Chimborazo
[10] Name this scientist who wrote the book Cosmos, which reintroduced that word into the modern vocabulary and sought to provide “A Sketch of a Physical Description of the Universe” in five volumes.
ANSWER: Alexander von Humboldt

655.
ID: 38537  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History Classical
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 10 | Number: 3
BONUS: According to Sallust, one of the people targeted by this plot escaped assassination after being warned of it by Fulvia, the mistress of one of his opponents. For 10 points each:
[10] The Catiline conspiracy saw the passage of one of these laws, which declared a state of emergency and allowed consuls like Cicero to take whatever measures deemed necessary to defend the Roman Republic.
ANSWER: Senatus consultum ultimum [or ultimate decree of the Senate; or final decree of the Senate; accept act in place of “decree”; accept SCU] &lt;JL, European History&gt;
[10] This consul and target of the Catiline conspiracy delivered the Catiline Orations to accuse Catiline before the Senate. Later in his life, he delivered a series of Philippics against Mark Antony.
ANSWER: Cicero [or Marcus Tullius Cicero]
[10] Name this plot by a failed consular candidate to take over Rome in 63 BC. The namesake of this plot was later killed by the forces of Gaius Antonius Hybridus at Pistoria.
ANSWER: Catiline conspiracy [or Catilinarian conspiracy]

656.
ID: 38538  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 10 | Number: 4
BONUS: Answer the following about everyone’s favorite element, “Good Old Neon.” For 10 points each:
[10] This lover of Simone de Beauvoir wrote about lower-class characters’ struggles in Chicago in his collection Neon Wilderness, which includes stories like “How the Devil Came Down Division Street.”
ANSWER: Nelson Algren &lt;AP, American Literature&gt;
[10] At age 16, this author wrote The Neon Bible, which recounts David’s adolescence in rural Mississippi. This author wrote about a Boethius-loving hot dog vendor in New Orleans in his novel The Confederacy of Dunces.
ANSWER: John Kennedy Toole
[10] The narrator of this author’s story “Good Old Neon” recounts the motives behind his suicide by crashing his car in rural Illinois. This footnote enthusiast also wrote the essay “Consider the Lobster” and novel Infinite Jest.
ANSWER: David Foster Wallace

657.
ID: 38539  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Other
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 10 | Number: 5
BONUS: The Large Area Telescope uses pair conversion detectors to map the whole sky in this part of the electromagnetic spectrum, which is also measured by scintillation detectors. For 10 points each:
[10] This optical sky survey based in New Mexico includes the APOGEE study of galactic evolution. This survey’s Baryon Oscillation Survey was designed to study early universe expansion by measuring the spatial distribution of luminous red galaxies.
ANSWER: Sloan Digital Sky Survey [or SDSS] &lt;GR, Other Science: Astronomy&gt;
[10] Karl Jansky was a pioneer of astronomy in this other part of the electromagnetic spectrum. Jansky observed that the center of the Milky Way is a strong source of this radiation surveyed by the Very Large Array in New Mexico.
ANSWER: radio waves
[10] Name this high-energy radiation studied by NASA’s Fermi Space Telescope, which succeeded the Compton Observatory for this part of the electromagnetic spectrum.
ANSWER: gamma rays [accept Fermi Gamma-ray Space Telescope or Compton Gamma Ray Observatory]

658.
ID: 38540  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Mythology | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 10 | Number: 6
BONUS: This process occurs to the protagonist at the end of a Japanese fairy tale in which he is brought to the undersea Dragon Palace as a reward for his rescue of a turtle. For 10 points each:
[10] Yayāti (“yuh-YAH-tee”), a king of a dynasty named for this object, was cursed to rapidly age due to his infidelity, but exchanged his old age with his son. Chandra, the Hindu god of this object, laughed at Ganesha when he tripped due to his own weight.
ANSWER: the Moon [accept the Lunar dynasty] &lt;JS, Mythology&gt;
[10] That second hero who rapidly ages after returning from a fairy realm is Oisín (“oh-SHEEN”), the son of this leader of the Fianna in Irish mythology. As a child, he burned himself while cooking the Salmon of Knowledge.
ANSWER: Finn MacCool [accept either underlined name; or Fionn MacCumhail]
[10] Identify this event experienced by Urashima Taro when he opens the tamatebako, a mysterious jeweled box. In another myth, a man has this experience after ignoring the warning of his lover Niamh (“NEE-uv”).
ANSWER: instantaneous aging [accept anything related to becoming old]

659.
ID: 38541  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature World
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 10 | Number: 7
BONUS: One of the best-known poems in this language expresses the speaker’s love for things like the “enervating perfume of flowers” before stating “but most of all I love my brother, man.” For 10 points each:
[10] Paz and Eliot Weinberg wrote a book presenting “nineteen ways” of translating the poem “Deer Park” from this language. A popular anthology of 300 poems in this language includes “Song of the Wagons.”
ANSWER: Classical Chinese [or Middle Chinese; or Literary Chinese; or Zhōngwén; accept specific modern vernaculars like Mandarin Chinese or Cantonese] (“Deer Park” is by Wáng Wéi, and “Song of the Wagons” is by Dù Fǔ.) &lt;AP, World/Other Literature&gt;
[10] Octavio Paz, an author from this country, wrote the aforementioned poem “Sun Stone,” whose cyclical structure is inspired by a Nahuatl-language calendar developed by one of this country’s pre-Columbian civilizations.
ANSWER: Mexico
[10] Name this language of songs collected in a 16th-century book titled for the “Ballads of the Lords.” A system developed in this language inspired a poem that states “I travel through your waist as through a river.”
ANSWER: Classical Nahuatl [prompt on the Aztec language]

660.
ID: 38542  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 10 | Number: 8
BONUS: Examples of these pieces by John Williams include one “for X-Wings” and one “for Motorcycle and Orchestra,” the latter of which was used in the film <em>Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade</em>. For 10 points each:
[10] This composer’s much-revised Fourth Symphony, the “Romantic,” contains a “Hunt Scherzo” in 2/4 time. The second movement of his Seventh Symphony uses four Wagner tubas, and a trumpet leaps up an octave in its scherzo.
ANSWER: Anton Bruckner &lt;AE, Classical Music&gt;
[10] This Czech composer’s Fantastic Scherzo is much lighter than the Asrael Symphony he wrote after the death of his father-in-law, Antonín Dvořák. He wrote a Serenade for Strings in E-flat major and the suite Pohádka based on a fairy tale by Julius Zeyer (“YOOL-yoos ZAY-er”).
ANSWER: Josef Suk (“YO-zef SOOK”)
[10] Name this type of musical composition that is usually in 3/4 time. Beginning with Beethoven, one of these light, joking pieces often replaced the minuet in the trio-form third movement of a symphony.
ANSWER: scherzo (“SKAIRT-soh”)

661.
ID: 38544  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 10 | Number: 10
BONUS: A character in this play writes charming memoirs for minor royals, though Princess Palliatani dies before her memoir is finished. For 10 points each:
[10] To maintain her strength after séances, Madame Arcati frequently munches on these specific food items that Ruth made. In The Importance of Being Earnest, Lane cannot buy ingredients for making this food, despite Aunt Augusta specifically asking for some.
ANSWER: cucumber sandwiches [prompt on partial answers] &lt;VS, British Literature&gt;
[10] In Blithe Spirit, Madame Arcati references this other play when she claims “There are more things in heaven and earth, Mrs. Condomine, than are dreamt of in your philosophy.” This play’s title character gives the “To be or not to be” speech.
ANSWER: Hamlet [or The Tragedy of Hamlet: Prince of Denmark]
[10] Name this Noël Coward play that features the psychic Madame Arcati, who uses séances (“SAY-on-sizz”) to bring back the ghosts of Ruth and Elvira in Charles Condomine’s house.
ANSWER: Blithe Spirit

662.
ID: 38545  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 10 | Number: 11
BONUS: Planck’s (“plonk’s”) formulation of this result states that all equilibrium systems have the same entropy at absolute zero. For 10 points each:
[10] Linus Pauling theorized that this material could exhibit residual entropy at absolute zero. Exotic high-pressure crystalline phases of this material are labeled by the Roman numerals IV (“four”) and XII (“twelve”).
ANSWER: water ice [prompt on water] &lt;GR, Chemistry&gt;
[10] This scientist provided the first statement of the third law, that chemical reactions take place without changes in entropy near absolute zero. This scientist also developed an equation from chemical thermodynamics that is modified to account for overpotential in the Butler–Volmer equation.
ANSWER: Walther Nernst [accept Nernst equation]
[10] Name this result that implies no finite cooling process can reach a temperature of zero kelvins.
ANSWER: third law of thermodynamics

663.
ID: 38546  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 10 | Number: 12
BONUS: An artist from this country showed a goddess reclining at night surrounded by classical architecture in his <em>Sleeping Venus</em>. For 10 points each:
[10] This other Belgian painter painted a skull with purple and blue flowers in its eyes wearing a bowler hat. This surrealist painter of The Treachery of Images also painted a green apple in front of a man’s face in Son of Man.
ANSWER: René Magritte &lt;JH, Painting &amp; Sculpture&gt;
[10] Paul Delvaux’s fear of one of these objects in a school music room inspired his repeated depictions of them, such as a painting in which one “has the shell.” His compatriot James Ensor painted two of these objects pulling on a herring.
ANSWER: skeletons [or skulls]
[10] Name this home country of Paul Delvaux (“del-VO”), as well as an artist best-known for a massive painting of Jesus entering one of its cities under the banner “Vive La Sociale.”
ANSWER: Belgium

664.
ID: 38547  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 10 | Number: 13
BONUS: This leader, who wrote his country’s national anthem “One Single Night,” played guitar in the band “Tout-à-Coup (“toot-ah-KOO”) Jazz” with his military associates. For 10 points each:
[10] The Liberian warlord Prince Johnson claimed that Thomas Sankara’s assassination in 1987 was orchestrated by this Liberian leader who supported the RUF in the Sierra Leone Civil War in exchange for diamonds.
ANSWER: Charles Taylor [or Charles Ghankay Taylor] &lt;AP, World History&gt;
[10] Thomas Sankara fought the Christmas War against this neighboring country over the Agacher Strip. This country, whose capital is Bamako, shares its name with an empire that was ruled by several mansas.
ANSWER: Mali
[10] Name this leader who renamed Upper Volta as Burkina Faso. This leader, sometimes called “Africa’s Che Guevara,” planted nearly 10 million trees to mitigate the desertification of the Sahel.
ANSWER: Thomas Sankara

665.
ID: 38548  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 10 | Number: 14
BONUS: In a widely-cited paper, Daron Acemoğlu (“dah-ROAN ah-jay-MOH-loo”) and James Robinson used European settler mortality rates as an instrumental variable for the strength of these entities in formerly colonized countries. For 10 points each:
[10] Ronald Coase (“koce”), who founded New Institutional Economics, proposed a namesake theorem stating that without transaction costs, bargaining can efficiently resolve these costs and benefits incurred by unrelated third parties.
ANSWER: externalities [or externality; or spillover effects] &lt;WC, Social Science&gt;
[10] The institutional economist Elinor Ostrom became the first woman to win the Nobel Prize in Economics thanks to her work on this problem proposed by Garrett Hardin, in which people acting rationally deplete a shared resource.
ANSWER: tragedy of the commons [accept Governing the Commons]
[10] Name these entities, which have “inclusive” and “extractive” types contrasted in Acemoğlu and Robinson’s book Why Nations Fail. Douglass North defined these entities as the “rules of the game” in human interactions.
ANSWER: institutions

666.
ID: 38549  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 10 | Number: 15
BONUS: In a story by this author, a Polish-born librarian with a photographic memory is sent to an internment camp for writing a letter to the editor of a French magazine. For 10 points each:
[10] Zweig’s novella Confusion details Roland’s idolatry of an unnamed person with this profession. In All Quiet on the Western Front, Mittelstadt mocks the uniform of a person with this profession named Kantorek who refers to the protagonist and his friends as the “Iron Youth.”
ANSWER: professor [or teacher; or schoolmaster] &lt;AP, European Literature&gt;
[10] In another Zweig story, Dr. B plays this game against himself in isolation so many times that he develops two distinct personalities called “Black” and “White” and hears an inner voice that screams “Check!” and “Mate!”
ANSWER: chess [or Schach; accept “A Chess Story”; prompt on The Royal Game]
[10] Name this author whose only novel was Beware of Pity. In this author’s novella Amok, a doctor commits suicide by jumping off the deck of an Indonesian ship while clutching the coffin of a woman who asked him for an abortion.
ANSWER: Stefan Zweig

667.
ID: 38551  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 10 | Number: 17
BONUS: This effect results in the Gaussian profile of spectral lines due to thermal motion of atoms. For 10 points each:
[10] Saturated absorption spectroscopy can be used to measure these small features in the spectra of hydrogen-like atoms. The 21-centimeter line in hydrogen is an example of this feature that arises due to the interaction of nuclear and electron spin.
ANSWER: hyperfine structure [prompt on spin–spin interaction; do not accept or prompt on “fine structure”] &lt;GR, Physics&gt;
[10] Spectroscopy is normally limited by Doppler broadening due to thermal motion of atoms in the sample. This “Doppler-free” technique overcomes the limitation by using pump and probe beams and measuring stimulated emission.
ANSWER: saturated absorption spectroscopy
[10] Name this effect that redshifts or blueshifts light, depending on the source velocity relative to the observer.
ANSWER: Doppler effect [accept Doppler broadening]

668.
ID: 38552  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 10 | Number: 18
BONUS: After Buenaventura Báez requested the annexation of his country, this president sent Orville Babcock to meet with Báez. For 10 points each:
[10] The annexation treaty was vigorously opposed by this senator, who had earlier pushed for the establishment of the Freedmen’s Bureau during Reconstruction as chair of the Select Committee on Slavery and Freedom.
ANSWER: Charles Sumner &lt;AE, American History&gt;
[10] The actual treaty to annex Santo Domingo was drafted up by this Secretary of State, who also settled the Alabama Claims with the UK and the Virginius Affair with Spain.
ANSWER: Hamilton Fish
[10] Name this US president whose failure to annex Santo Domingo became a major political embarrassment. This president’s time in office also saw the Whiskey Ring and Crédit Mobilier scandals.
ANSWER: Ulysses S. Grant [or Hiram Ulysses Grant]

669.
ID: 38553  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Other
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 10 | Number: 19
BONUS: In 2017, Rome mayor Virginia Raggi prevented three triangular towers designed by this architect from being included in the park next to football club AS (“ah-ess”) Roma’s planned new stadium. For 10 points each:
[10] Libeskind’s “Crystal” was a controversial addition to a museum in this country. Moshe Safdie (“mo-SHEH SAHF-dee”) built a modular “Habitat” for a World’s Fair in this country, the home country of the architect of the Dancing House.
ANSWER: Canada (The architect of the Dancing House is Frank Gehry, and Habitat 67 was for Montreal’s Expo.) &lt;AP, Other Arts&gt;
[10] David Childs of Skidmore, Owings, and Merrill discarded much of Libeskind’s preliminary design for this New York skyscraper built as a spiritual replacement to the Twin Towers destroyed on 9/11.
ANSWER: One World Trade Center [or One WTC; or Freedom Tower; prompt on World Trade Center or WTC]
[10] Name this Polish-American architect whose Jewish Museum in Berlin has several empty “voids” lacking air conditioning, one of which contains thousands of iron cutouts resembling human faces.
ANSWER: Daniel Libeskind

670.
ID: 38554  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Philosophy | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 10 | Number: 20
BONUS: C. L. Stevenson defended a variant of this view that attempts to explain how moral language is “magnetic.” For 10 points each:
[10] Simon Blackburn interprets this Scottish skepticist as an early expressivist. He argued that an “is” cannot be derived from an “ought” in his book A Treatise of Human Nature.
ANSWER: David Hume &lt;CK, Philosophy&gt;
[10] A primary motivation for emotivism was this thinker’s open question argument, which shows that no moral property can be identical with a natural property, disproving what he dubbed the “naturalistic fallacy.”
ANSWER: G. E. Moore [or George Edward Moore]
[10] A. J. Ayer proposed what view in metaethics that holds that moral language expresses non-propositional attitudes like “boo” and “hurrah?”
ANSWER: emotivism [prompt on expressivism; prompt on non-cognitivism]

671.
ID: 38555  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 11 | Number: 1
BONUS: Both the far right panel of Bosch’s <em>The Last Judgment</em> triptych and his <em>Garden of Earthly Delights</em> show this location. For 10 points each:
[10] In this painting, Bruegel the Elder showed the title woman leading an army of women into a literal “mouth of Hell” on their way to pillage the underworld.
ANSWER: Mad Meg [or Dull Gret; or Dulle Griet] &lt;JH, Painting &amp; Sculpture&gt;
[10] Sinners fall headfirst into Hell as they are defecated out by a giant skeleton with bat wings in this artist’s Crucifixion and Last Judgement diptych, which was attributed to him thanks to its similarities with the “Hand G” illustrations in the Turin-Milan Hours.
ANSWER: Jan van Eyck
[10] Name this location depicted by many Northern Renaissance artists, who seemed to relish painting the souls of the damned being tortured by demons in this place.
ANSWER: Hell

672.
ID: 38556  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 11 | Number: 2
BONUS: The current flowing through the base of one type of these devices controls the current between the collector and the emitter. For 10 points each:
[10] In contrast to bipolar transistors, MOSFETs (“MOSS-fets”) have very high DC gate impedance. The gate acts as one of these components, whose charge controls current flow in the channel.
ANSWER: capacitor [accept gate capacitance] &lt;GR, Physics&gt;
[10] Current through the channel of this type of transistor is only due to one type of charge carrier. These devices have insulated gates, making them voltage-controlled, rather than current-controlled, unlike BJTs.
ANSWER: FETs [or field-effect transistors; or MOSFETs or metal oxide field-effect transistors; prompt on MOS]
[10] Name these three-terminal circuit elements used in solid-state electronic devices like amplifiers.
ANSWER: transistors [accept bipolar junction transistors or BJTs]

673.
ID: 38557  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature World
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 11 | Number: 3
BONUS: In a short story, the Parisian writer Garcín opens the cage of a bird described by this adjective before shooting himself to avoid working in his family’s shop. For 10 points each:
[10] In a story from Azul…, four men are gifted a blue veil of dreams by Mab, the queen of these mythical beings. Edmund Spenser’s epic poem about Gloriana is titled for the queen of these beings.
ANSWER: fairies [or fairy; accept The Faerie Queene] &lt;AP, World/Other Literature&gt;
[10] This Nicaraguan author’s collection Azul… kickstarted the modernismo movement of Hispanic literature in the late 19th century.
ANSWER: Rubén Darío
[10] Give either the original Spanish or English translation of this adjective. A Spanish-language collection titled for this adjective contains works like “The Bourgeois King” and “The Lyric Year” and opens with an epigraph by Victor Hugo describing art with this adjective.
ANSWER: blue [or azul; or azur; accept “The Blue Bird” or “El pájaro azul”]

674.
ID: 38558  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 11 | Number: 4
BONUS: William C. Lee was the first commander of this military force, which was sent to Arkansas by President Eisenhower to enforce the integration of Little Rock Central High School. For 10 points each:
[10] The story of the 101st Airborne during World War II was chronicled in Band of Brothers, a book by this historian. This historian wrote Eisenhower’s official biography and a three-volume biography on Nixon.
ANSWER: Stephen E. Ambrose [or Stephen Edward Ambrose] &lt;AE, American History&gt;
[10] The defence of Bastogne by the 101st Airborne occurred during this battle from 1944 to 1945, the last major German offensive in World War II. This battle takes its name from the shape of Allied lines caused by the offensive.
ANSWER: Battle of the Bulge [or Battle of the Ardennes]
[10] Name this US army paratrooper division. While defending Bastogne (“bas-TONE”), the commander of this division, Anthony McAuliffe, replied “Nuts!” when asked to surrender by the Germans.
ANSWER: 101st Airborne [or Screaming Eagles]

675.
ID: 38559  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Current Events | Subcategory: Current Events Other
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 11 | Number: 5
BONUS: Ten days after the UN cited this country’s security forces for arbitrarily killing hundreds, its defense minister promoted nearly 17,000 soldiers for “loyalty” and “respecting human rights.” For 10 points each:
[10] Thousands of Venezuelans have lost weight due to malnutrition in the “Maduro diet,” despite Mercal, a social program given this name. Many social programs with this name were established by Hugo Chávez.
ANSWER: Bolivarian Missions [or Misiones Bolivarianas; prompt on Missions or Misiones; prompt on Bolivarian or Bolivarianas] &lt;JH, Other&gt;
[10] In February 2018, Venezuela launched the petro, which is one of these assets based on its oil reserves. In December 2018, Lael Brainard criticized the idea of creating CBDCs as an alternative to these assets.
ANSWER: cryptocurrency [or cryptocurrencies; prompt on currency or money]
[10] Name this South American country that is facing a constitutional crisis in early 2019. The National Assembly declared Juan Guaidó (“gway-DOH”) the acting president on January 23, two weeks after the inauguration of Nicolás Maduro.
ANSWER: Venezuela [or the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela]

676.
ID: 38560  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 11 | Number: 6
BONUS: This quantity increases across periods, with noble gases having the highest values. For 10 points each:
[10] Ralph Pearson and Robert Parr defined this other quantity as the ionization energy minus the electronegativity, all over 2. Molecules with high values of this quantity are not easily polarized.
ANSWER: chemical hardness &lt;AE, Chemistry&gt;
[10] When ionization changes the spectrum of these degrees of freedom, it is called vertical ionization. In contrast, adiabatic ionization energy is defined for molecules with the minimum energy in these degrees of freedom, which can be modeled with the QHO or Morse potential.
ANSWER: vibrational degrees of freedom [or vibrational modes; accept vibrational energy]
[10] Name this quantity defined as the amount of energy needed to remove a single electron from an atom or molecule.
ANSWER: first ionization energy

677.
ID: 38561  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 11 | Number: 7
BONUS: In a poem titled for one of these animals, the speaker notes “Something else is alive” in the “midnight moment’s forest” that they are imagining. For 10 points each:
[10] The narrator of this novel clumsily repeats a joke about what Ted Hughes will do when he runs out of animals to write about. Tony reflects on the suicide of Adrian Finn in this Julian Barnes novel.
ANSWER: The Sense of an Ending &lt;VS, British Literature&gt;
[10] Another Ted Hughes poem mentions the “Continual wars and wives” that have battered one of these animals belonging to Esther. One of these animals proposes marriage to an owl in an Edward Lear poem.
ANSWER: cats [or tomcat; or pussy-cat; accept “Esther’s Tomcat” or “The Owl and the Pussy-Cat”]
[10] Name this sort of animal, one of which enters “the dark hole of the head” in a Ted Hughes poem that analogizes thought to one of these animals. In Chaucer’s Nun’s Priest’s Tale, which is based on the Reynard cycle, Chanticleer is almost abducted by one of these animals.
ANSWER: foxes [accept “The Thought Fox”]

678.
ID: 38562  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History British
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 11 | Number: 8
BONUS: After some activists for this cause were force-fed while engaging in hunger strikes, Parliament passed the “Cat and Mouse Act” to allow them to be temporarily released from prison. For 10 points each:
[10] Pankhurst’s militancy was opposed by this other suffragette who founded the National Union of Women’s Suffrage Societies. She investigated the conditions of British concentration camps during the Boer War.
ANSWER: Millicent Fawcett [or Millicent Garrett Fawcett] &lt;AE, European History&gt;
[10] This woman founded the WPSU and led many hunger strikes in support of women’s suffrage, but suspended her activism to support the British government during World War I.
ANSWER: Emmeline Pankhurst [or Emmeline Goulden]
[10] Name this cause championed by members of the WSPU like Emily Davison, who died after being trampled by George V’s horse at the Epsom Derby. The Nineteenth Amendment achieved this cause in the United States.
ANSWER: women’s suffrage [or female suffrage or woman suffrage or women’s voting rights or anything indicating that women have the right to vote; prompt on suffrage or voting rights or other partial answers]

679.
ID: 38563  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 11 | Number: 9
BONUS: Increasing numbers of divided first violins quietly sustain this high pedal point in octaves for the first several minutes of Borodin’s tone poem <em>In the Steppes of Central Asia</em>. For 10 points each:
[10] A final solo violin cadenza over harp, long high harmonic E’s, the falling whole tones E D C B-flat, four chords quoting Mendelssohn’s Midsummer Night’s Dream, and an A minor–E major cadence peacefully end this tone poem by Rimsky-Korsakov as the title storyteller “wins over” Shahryar.
ANSWER: Scheherazade &lt;OL, Classical Music&gt;
[10] Flourishes up to a long high E and 3+2 hemiolas feature in the “Allegretto lusinghiero” intro of this French composer’s Havanaise (“ah-vah-NEZ”). A young Pablo de Sarasate premiered his violin showpiece Introduction et Rondo Capriccioso.
ANSWER: Camille Saint-Saëns (“kuh-MEE san-SAWNS”)
[10] Name this note. A long, high, piercing harmonic on this note by the first violin signifies Smetana’s deafness and interrupts the happy finale of his String Quartet No. 1 “From My Life,” which is in this note’s minor key.
ANSWER: E [or high E; or E-natural; accept E minor]

680.
ID: 38564  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Religion | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 11 | Number: 10
BONUS: Answer the following about unusual implements of murder in the Book of Judges, for 10 points each.
[10] Deborah’s story follows a single verse about this judge, who killed 600 Philistines with an ox-goad. The Song of Deborah states that in the time of this judge, “caravans ceased and travellers kept on the byways.”
ANSWER: Shamgar &lt;WC, Mythology&gt;
[10] After this judge and Barak defeated the Canaanite commander Sisera, Sisera died at the hands of Jael, who drove a tent peg into his skull. This judge’s “song” is considered one of the oldest passages in the Bible.
ANSWER: Deborah [or Devorah]
[10] After this judge was tied up by Philistines, he broke free from his restraints and picked up a donkey’s jawbone, using it to kill a thousand men. This judge lost his supernatural strength when his lover Delilah cut his hair.
ANSWER: Samson [or Sampson or Shimshon]

681.
ID: 38565  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Computer Science
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 11 | Number: 11
BONUS: Answer the following about alternative models of computing, for 10 points each.
[10] Bubble-based logic is a type of fluidics that has this property because the number of bubbles is conserved. Fredkin and Toffoli developed a billiard ball computing model with this property, and gates with this property must not map multiple inputs to the same output.
ANSWER: logical reversibility [or word form such as reversible logic; accept invertibility or word forms such as invertible logic gates] &lt;GR, Other Science: Computer Science&gt;
[10] More traditional gate-based computers can be built using fluidics. The fluidic version of this gate uses two streams that meet so that they deflect away from the output when both streams are ON. This gate outputs ON if only one of the inputs is ON.
ANSWER: XOR (“ex-or” or “zor”) [or exclusive OR]
[10] In a scheme pioneered by Nakagaki, scientists use food and light to pose problems like optimizing rail networks to these organisms. The specific organism used is an ameboid, but this term refers to a broad class of protists that form fungi-like aggregates.
ANSWER: slime molds [or slime mold computing; accept Physarum polycephalum; do not prompt on partial answers]

682.
ID: 38566  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature European
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 11 | Number: 12
BONUS: This poem states that “Every moon is atrocious and every sun bitter” while describing the speaker as “swollen… with intoxication torpor.” For 10 points each:
[10] Rimbaud’s A Season in Hell declares that this virtue is the “key… to that ancient party where I might find my appetite once more.” Alfred de Musset (“mew-SAY”) called this virtue “gold without pity,” and the cliché that it “begins at home” is often misattributed to the playwright Terence.
ANSWER: charity [accept “charity begins at home”] &lt;JH, European Literature&gt;
[10] “The Drunken Boat” is by this French poet who quit poetry at age 21 to pursue a career in gun-running and, allegedly, slave trading in Africa.
ANSWER: Arthur Rimbaud (“ar-TOOR ram-BOH”)
[10] Name this poem that describes “unbelievable Florida’s mingling with flowers panther’s eyes and human skin.”
ANSWER: “The Drunken Boat” [or “Le Bateau ivre”]

683.
ID: 38568  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 11 | Number: 14
BONUS: The god Enki was the patron deity of this Sumerian city, which was built near an underground water source called the Apsu. For 10 points each:
[10] Ur and Eridu were settled centuries before this other Mesopotamian city that was ruled by kings like Nebuchadnezzar II and Hammurabi.
ANSWER: Babylon [or Babil] &lt;AE, European History&gt;
[10] Eridu lay a few miles south of this other Sumerian city, which was home to a Great Ziggurat excavated by Sir Leonard Woolley.
ANSWER: Ur [or Urim; accept Tell al-Muqayyar; do not accept “Uruk”]
[10] Name this Mesopotamian city whose rulers are the first kings mentioned on the Sumerian King List, which is often taken as evidence for this city being the oldest in Sumerian civilization.
ANSWER: Eridu [accept Tell Abu Shahrain]

684.
ID: 38569  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 11 | Number: 15
BONUS: These sequences are classified by whether they include long terminal repeats or 3-prime and 5-prime untranslated regions. For 10 points each:
[10] DNA-based class II (“two”) transposons include the mariner family discovered in this genus. Morgan used these model organisms to demonstrate that genes, such as one coding for white eye color, are inherited on specific chromosomes.
ANSWER: Drosophila [accept Drosophila mauritiana; accept Drosophila melanogaster; prompt on fruit flies] &lt;GR, Biology&gt;
[10] This scientist studied color patterns in maize to discover the first transposon, Ac/Ds, on chromosome 9. She won the 1983 Nobel for Physiology or Medicine for the discovery.
ANSWER: Barbara McClintock
[10] Name this subclass of transposable elements that must be transcribed into RNA before moving in the genome.
ANSWER: retrotransposons [or class 1 transposable elements; prompt on transposons]

685.
ID: 38570  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Audiovisual
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 11 | Number: 16
BONUS: In his best known song, this character boasts that he can “whistle all the airs from that infernal nonsense Pinafore.” For 10 points each:
[10] This comic baritone sings about a time when “your brain is on fire” and “the bed-clothes conspire” in his “Nightmare Song,” after he falls in unrequited love with his ward Phyllis in Iolanthe.
ANSWER: Lord Chancellor &lt;CK, Other Arts&gt;
[10] After early successes including The Pirates of Penzance, this librettist-composer duo wrote the operas Patience and Iolanthe (“eye-oh-LAN-thee”) for the Savoy Theatre. Name both.
ANSWER: W. S. Gilbert AND Arthur Sullivan
[10] Name this character from The Pirates of Penzance who sings “I’ve information vegetable, animal, and mineral” in a patter song in which he states that he is the very model of modern holder of his namesake rank.
ANSWER: Major-General Stanley [or Major-General Stanley]

686.
ID: 38571  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 11 | Number: 17
BONUS: This thinker called Black women “outsiders-within” because they are excluded from both feminist and Black thought. For 10 points each:
[10] This earlier sociologist described how African-Americans suffered from “double consciousness” in The Souls of Black Folk. This man also served as first president of the NAACP and edited its magazine The Crisis.
ANSWER: W. E. B. Du Bois [or William Edward Burghardt Du Bois] &lt;CK, Social Science&gt;
[10] Patricia Hill Collins argued that this concept works within a “matrix of domination.” Kimberlé Crenshaw coined this concept, which argues that the most marginalized are oppressed by interlocking systems of power.
ANSWER: intersectionality [or word forms]
[10] Name this University of Maryland sociologist who examined the intellectual history of African-American women in her 1990 book Black Feminist Thought.
ANSWER: Patricia Hill Collins

687.
ID: 38572  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 11 | Number: 18
BONUS: One pill used to cure this disorder also causes its user to believe that words said around them are actual objects, like “falling airplane.” For 10 points each:
[10] White Noise is a novel by this postmodern American author, who described the life of Lee Harvey Oswald in his novel Libra and wrote Underworld and Mao II.
ANSWER: Don DeLillo &lt;VS, American Literature&gt;
[10] Babette takes the experimental drug Dylar to treat her fear of death in this novel, in which her husband Jack pioneers the academic field of Hitler Studies.
ANSWER: White Noise
[10] Name this disorder. To receive an experimental drug for it, Babette repeatedly has an affair with the pseudonymous Mr. Gray.
ANSWER: fear of death [or thanatophobia; accept equivalents like fear of dying or being scared of death; prompt on fear or similar answers]

688.
ID: 38573  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Religion | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 11 | Number: 19
BONUS: In Iran and the Indian subcontinent, practitioners of this form of Islam worship in buildings called <em>khanqah</em>s, and saints from this form of Islam are venerated at shrines called <em>dargah</em>s. For 10 points each:
[10] Dhikr can also involve the recitation of these phrases, of which there are 99 in the Quran. The Basmala invokes two of these phrases, “ar-Rahman” and “ar-Rahim.”
ANSWER: names of God [or beautiful names of Allah; or attributes of God or attributes of Allah; prompt on partial answers or asmā’u llāhi l-ḥusnā] &lt;WC, Religion&gt;
[10] Members of this Sufi order based in Turkey are known as the “Whirling Dervishes” because of their performance of a dance called the sema that accompanies the recitation of dhikr (“thicker”) prayers.
ANSWER: Mevlevi Order [or Mevleviyah or Mawlawiyah]
[10] Name this mystical form of Islam, whose followers emphasize the direct personal experience of God. People may follow this form of Islam as a part of an order called a tariqa claiming spiritual descent from Muhammad.
ANSWER: Sufism [or Tasawwuf]

689.
ID: 38574  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 11 | Number: 20
BONUS: After rejecting Leonid Brezhnev’s advice about keeping NATO out of his country, this leader walked out of the meeting and allegedly had to be reminded to shake Brezhnev’s hand. For 10 points each:
[10] Soon after Daoud’s coup, Pakistan’s prime minister Zulfikar Ali Bhutto began training Afghani Islamists like Gulbuddin Hekmatyar (“gool-boo-DEEN HECK-mutt-yar”), forming the basis of these guerilla groups that fought against the 1979 Soviet invasion.
ANSWER: mujahideen [or mujahid] &lt;AP, World History&gt;
[10] As Afghanistan’s prime minister, Daoud Khan had supported uniting Pashtun peoples across the Durand Line, Afghanistan’s border with this country. This country was established in 1947 by the partition of British India.
ANSWER: Pakistan
[10] Name this leader who overthrew his cousin Zahir (“zuh-HEER”) Shah, the last king of Afghanistan, in 1973 while Zahir Shah was undergoing eye surgery in Italy. He was overthrown in the Saur (“sor”) Revolution in 1978.
ANSWER: Mohammed Daoud (“dah-OOD”) Khan [or Prince Daoud; prompt on Khan]

690.
ID: 38575  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature European
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 12 | Number: 1
BONUS: The narrator of a poem repeatedly exclaims, “I don’t want to see” the body of one of these people who “looked for dawn” though “the dawn was no more.” For 10 points each:
[10] This English youth, the title character of a semi-autobiographical narrative poem by Lord Byron, watches a bull killed by a matador in Cádiz, one of the stops of the title “pilgrimage” he undertakes across Europe.
ANSWER: Childe Harold [accept Childe Harold’s Pilgrimage] &lt;AP, European Literature&gt;
[10] “Lament for the Death of a Bullfighter” is an elegy written by this Spanish author. This author’s other works include the plays Blood Wedding and The House of Bernarda Alba.
ANSWER: Federico García Lorca [prompt on partial answer]
[10] Name this type of person whose death due to “wounds [that] burned like suns” occurs “at five in the afternoon” in a poem whose narrator “sings his elegance with a whimper of words.”
ANSWER: bullfighter [or matador de toros; or torero; or toreador; accept “Lament for the Death of a Bullfighter”; prompt on “Llanto por Ignacio Sánchez Mejías” by asking “which is an elegy for a person of what profession?”; prompt on Ignacio Sánchez Mejías by asking “who was of what profession?”]

691.
ID: 38577  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 12 | Number: 3
BONUS: Dawson and Paredez described a conspicuous lack of proteins that bind to this protein in Excavata protists. For 10 points each:
[10] The anaphase-promoting complex hastens the end of metaphase by catalyzing the formation of a bond between the cohesin complex and this other protein.
ANSWER: ubiquitin &lt;GR, Biology&gt;
[10] Like tubulin, actin is involved in this phase of the cell cycle. Sister chromatids align on a namesake plate in this phase.
ANSWER: metaphase
[10] Name this protein used for mobility in amoeba that exists in fibrous and globular types.
ANSWER: actin [accept F-actin or G-actin]

692.
ID: 38578  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 12 | Number: 4
BONUS: Marshall Sahlins argued that individuals in these societies only worked between three and five hours a day in an article that dubs them the “original affluent society.” For 10 points each:
[10] In a 2018 book, Graeber included “box-tickers” and “taskmasters” as examples of these things that are “bullshit.” Arlie Hochschild (“HOCK-child”) examined the emotional requirements associated with them in The Managed Heart.
ANSWER: jobs [accept Bullshit Jobs] &lt;CK, Social Science&gt;
[10] Marshall Sahlins taught this anarchist anthropologist, who argued that societies arose from “everyday communism” in his book Debt: The First 5000 Years.
ANSWER: David Graeber
[10] Name these foraging-based societies that declined after the spread of agriculture in the Neolithic Revolution.
ANSWER: hunter-gatherer societies [prompt on partial answer]

693.
ID: 38579  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 12 | Number: 5
BONUS: An example of this type of religious literature is <em>Mere Christianity</em>, which advances a “trilemma” claiming that one cannot accept Jesus merely as a moral teacher because he must be a lunatic, God, or the Devil. For 10 points each:
[10] This saint and early apologist directed his First Apology toward Antoninus Pius and Marcus Aurelius. That apology argued that Greek philosophers possessed the “seeds of the logos,” but not the full logos of Christ.
ANSWER: St. Justin Martyr [prompt on Justin] &lt;WC, Religion&gt;
[10] Mere Christianity was written by this British author who also wrote the apologetic novel The Screwtape Letters. He also incorporated Christian themes into his children’s series, The Chronicles of Narnia.
ANSWER: C. S. Lewis [or Clive Staples Lewis]
[10] Name this type of religious literature that argues in defense of Christian doctrines. An early example of this type of literature was Against Celsus by Origen, which refuted the arguments of the namesake pagan philosopher.
ANSWER: Christian apologetics [or apology or apologies or apologia]

694.
ID: 38581  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 12 | Number: 7
BONUS: This kind of cavalry was deployed in units called <em>chorągiew</em> (“ho-RON-g’yeff”) alongside <em>pancerni</em> (“pahn-TSAIR-nee”). For 10 points each:
[10] Hussars served as light cavalry in this Hungarian military force that was organized by Matthias Corvinus. This professional army carried the Hungarian forces to victory over the Ottomans at the Battle of Breadfield.
ANSWER: Black Army of Hungary [or Fekete sereg] &lt;AE, European History&gt;
[10] Hussars originated as a kind of light cavalry from this kingdom, which elected the general János Hunyadi (“YAH-nohsh HOON-ya-dee”) as “governor” following this kingdom’s defeat by the Ottomans during the Battle of Varna.
ANSWER: Hungary [or Magyarorszag]
[10] Name this kind of cavalry, some of whom fought for Poland while wearing armor with wings attached to the back plate that may have made a loud clattering sound as they charged.
ANSWER: hussars [or husaria; or Winged Hussars]

695.
ID: 38583  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Math
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 12 | Number: 9
BONUS: One form of this algorithm uses an ancilla register to apply a controlled unitary to a superposition of that unitary’s eigenstates. For 10 points each:
[10] One intermediate step in Shor’s algorithm in computing this number, which can be done efficiently with Euclid’s algorithm. For two integers a and b, this number is the largest number c such that a over c and b over c are both integers.
ANSWER: greatest common divisor [or GCD; or largest common divisor] &lt;GR, Other Science: Computer Science&gt;
[10] The quantum part of Shor’s algorithm solves the order finding problem, which, with some classical preprocessing, is equivalent to this problem. This NP problem is the basis for the RSA cryptosystem.
ANSWER: prime factorization [accept anything involving finding the prime factors of an integer]
[10] Name this phase estimation algorithm that can find the order of a modulo N in polynomial time.
ANSWER: Shor’s algorithm

696.
ID: 38584  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Philosophy | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 12 | Number: 10
BONUS: Arthur Prior analogized this concept to a “moving spotlight.” For 10 points each:
[10] This thinker described a “brave officer” who remembers being flogged as a schoolboy to argue that personal identity over time consists of having the same memories in his Essay Concerning Human Understanding.
ANSWER: John Locke &lt;CK, Philosophy&gt;
[10] Perdurantists (“per-DUR-un-tists”) argue that ordinary objects exist as this sum of their temporal parts. This branch of metaphysics studies how parts are composed into wholes.
ANSWER: mereology [accept mereological sum]
[10] Name this concept. J. M. E. McTaggart distinguished between tensed and tenseless forms of this conception, which he called the A-series and B-series.
ANSWER: time

697.
ID: 38585  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Audiovisual
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 12 | Number: 11
BONUS: Act 2 of one opera opens with this character lamenting her husband’s infidelity in the aria “Porgi, amor, qualche ristoro.” For 10 points each:
[10] Rosina appears in both The Barber of Seville and this other Mozart opera about the preparations for the wedding of Susanna and the titular character.
ANSWER: The Marriage of Figaro [or Le nozze di Figaro] &lt;AE, Other Arts&gt;
[10] In Act 1 of The Barber of Seville, Rosina sings this aria, in which she expresses her desire to be with Lindoro. This aria is often transposed from its written E major to F major when sung by coloratura sopranos.
ANSWER: “Una voce poco fa” (“OO-nah VOH-chay POH-koh FA”)
[10] Name this character who marries Count Almaviva at the end of Rossini’s The Barber of Seville.
ANSWER: Rosina

698.
ID: 38586  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 12 | Number: 12
BONUS: After World War II, the unchecked handing out of construction permits in this city led to the destruction of many of its Art Nouveau buildings, an event that was dubbed the “sack” of this city. For 10 points each:
[10] In 1995, an indictment for selling political favors to the Mafia was served to former Italian prime minister Giulio Andreotti, whose time in office saw the kidnapping and assassination of this politician by the Red Brigades.
ANSWER: Aldo Moro [or Aldo Romeo Luigi Moro] &lt;AP, European History&gt;
[10] The Maxi Trial prosecuted members of this criminal organization, called the Cosa Nostra by its members. This organization follows the code of omertà, requiring members to never publicly speak out about crimes.
ANSWER: Mafia [or Sicilian Mafia or mafiosi]
[10] Name this city in which the Maxi Trial took place. Two of the magistrates who organized the Maxi Trial, Giovanni Falcone and Paolo Borsellino, were each murdered by car bombs in this city in 1992.
ANSWER: Palermo [or Palermu]

699.
ID: 38587  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 12 | Number: 13
BONUS: In a short story, a man tells the protagonist, “nothing you’ll ever need to worry about,” when she asks about the meaning of a box in one of these images in a copy of <em>The Economist</em>. For 10 points each:
[10] “Sexy,” and several other short stories in the collection, are set in this US state. Nathaniel Hawthorne’s The Scarlet Letter portrays Hester Prynne’s punishment for adultery during this state’s colonial era.
ANSWER: Massachusetts &lt;WC, World/Other Literature&gt;
[10] Imagery of maps and atlases reoccurs in “Sexy,” a short story in this collection by Jhumpa Lahiri. Its title story features Mr. Kapasi, an aspiring translator who fantasizes about Mrs. Das as he guides her family on a tour in India.
ANSWER: The Interpreter of Maladies
[10] Name this sort of image depicted on stained glass in a room visited by the main characters of that short story, in which Miranda hears her lover’s voice bounce “wildly off the glass, sometimes loud, sometimes soft” in it.
ANSWER: world maps [accept Mapparium]

700.
ID: 38588  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Mythology | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 12 | Number: 14
BONUS: After Actaeon came upon this goddess bathing, he was turned into a stag before being killed by his own hunting dogs. For 10 points each:
[10] Zeus turned into the form of Artemis to seduce this nymph. She was expelled from Artemis’s group, and then an angry Hera turned her into a bear before she was eventually put into the stars as Ursa Major.
ANSWER: Callisto &lt;JH, Mythology&gt;
[10] After insulting the size of Artemis’s breasts, Artemis arranged for this woman’s rape at the hands of Dionysus. She went on a killing spree and then ate one of her twin children before throwing herself in the river Sangarios.
ANSWER: Aura
[10] Name this virginal goddess of the hunt, the twin sister of Apollo.
ANSWER: Artemis

701.
ID: 38589  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 12 | Number: 15
BONUS: Rotons are quasiparticles corresponding to minima in the dispersion relation of this material. For 10 points each:
[10] These vacuum flasks are used to store and transport cryogenic liquids. They were developed by a British physicist who showed that liquid oxygen is paramagnetic and proposed a bicyclic isomer of benzene.
ANSWER: Dewar (“DEW-er”) flask &lt;GR, Physics&gt;
[10] These devices use mixing properties of liquid helium-4 and helium-3 to produce temperatures in the microkelvin range.
ANSWER: dilution refrigerators [or dil fridges; prompt on refrigerators or fridges]
[10] Name this material that becomes a superfluid when cooled below its lambda point of 2.17 kelvins. The nuclei of atoms in this material consist of two protons and two neutrons.
ANSWER: superfluid helium-4 [accept liquid helium-4]

702.
ID: 38590  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Geography | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 12 | Number: 16
BONUS: Answer the following about telescopes all over the world, for 10 points each.
[10] The Gran Telescopio of this archipelago is currently the largest reflecting telescope in the world. It stands on the island of La Palma in this archipelago, which centers on Tenerife and the volcanic Pico del Teide.
ANSWER: Canary Islands [or Canaries; or Islas Canarias] &lt;GR, Other&gt;
[10] The twin telescope Keck observatory is located on this US mountain. Protestors halted construction of the Thirty Meter Telescope on this sacred mountain in 2015, though as of 2018 construction is slated to proceed.
ANSWER: Mauna Kea
[10] A hotel with a red concrete façade in this desert that houses researchers for the ESO was featured in Quantum of Solace. This Chilean desert is ideal for astronomy because of its high elevation and low precipitation.
ANSWER: Atacama Desert

703.
ID: 38591  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 12 | Number: 17
BONUS: German journalist Jürgen Hinzpeter (“YUR-gun HINTS-pee-tuh”) smuggled out footage of an uprising in this city by hiding his film in an elaborately gift-wrapped cookie jar that he passed off as a wedding gift. For 10 points each:
[10] This first president of South Korea brutally quashed an uprising on Jeju Island. This man was eventually forced into exile in Hawaii after the success of the April 19 Revolution in 1960.
ANSWER: Syngman Rhee [or Rhee Syngman] &lt;AP, World History&gt;
[10] The Gwangju Uprising was a key point in this Asian country’s transition to democracy. This country’s president Kim Dae-jung envisioned a “Sunshine Policy” towards its communist northern neighbor.
ANSWER: South Korea [or Republic of Korea or ROK; or Daehan Minguk; prompt on Korea; prompt on Hanguk; do not accept “North Korea” or “Democratic People’s Republic of Korea”]
[10] Name this city where an uprising began on May 18, 1980, after Chun Doo-hwan declared martial law. During that uprising, students at this city’s Chonnam National University were beaten and shot by state troops.
ANSWER: Gwangju [or Kwangju]

704.
ID: 38592  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 12 | Number: 18
BONUS: The first part of this work concludes with the elderly John Henry Newman only being able to exclaim “Oh, no! No!” when approached by an admiring curate (“CURE-it”). For 10 points each:
[10] The Victorian-era Dictionary of National Biography is currently updated and published by this university, whose massive English Dictionary was compiled over the course of 70 years starting in 1857.
ANSWER: Oxford University [accept Oxford English Dictionary] &lt;JH, British Literature&gt;
[10] This earlier author included essays on twenty-five men whom he believed exemplified their time, including Jeremy Bentham, Lord Byron, and William Wordsworth, in his book The Spirit of the Age.
ANSWER: William Hazlitt
[10] Name this work by Lytton Strachey (“LIT-un STRAY-chee”) that includes biographies of Cardinal Manning, Florence Nightingale, Thomas Arnold, and Charles George Gordon, the four title representatives of their age.
ANSWER: Eminent Victorians

705.
ID: 38594  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 12 | Number: 20
BONUS: Colligative properties do not depend on the exact nature of interactions between this species and the solute. For 10 points each:
[10] This quantity describes how a solute distributes itself between two immiscible solvents in equilibrium. The value of this quantity for octanol and water is a standard reference.
ANSWER: partition coefficient [or distribution coefficient] &lt;AE, Chemistry&gt;
[10] Two solvents described by this term cannot form a homogenous mixture in all proportions.
ANSWER: immiscible [or immiscibility]
[10] Name these compounds that dissolve other species to form solutions.
ANSWER: solvents

706.
ID: 38595  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 13 (Finals 1) | Number: 1
BONUS: Detractors of this politician called him a “Hebrew with Egyptian principles” for his staunch defense of the legality of slavery. For 10 points each:
[10] Benjamin was a senator from this state. Benjamin Butler issued the “Woman Order,” which instructed soldiers to treat women who insulted them as prostitutes, after he and David Farragut captured this state’s largest city.
ANSWER: Louisiana &lt;AP, American History&gt;
[10] This Confederate president, a former Secretary of War under Franklin Pierce, appointed Benjamin as the first Attorney General of the Confederacy.
ANSWER: Jefferson Davis
[10] Name this politician who was the first self-professed Jew to be elected to the Senate. After the Civil War, he fled to England, became a barrister, and wrote the influential Treatise on the Law of Sale of Personal Property.
ANSWER: Judah P. Benjamin [or Judah Philip Benjamin]

707.
ID: 38596  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Other
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 13 (Finals 1) | Number: 2
BONUS: In 2001, John T. Wearner and Saul Pleeter attempted to estimate this quantity using data from the military drawdown program of the early 1990s, obtaining estimates ranging from 0 to over 30 percent. For 10 points each:
[10] Time-inconsistency can lead to this behavior in which individuals repeatedly incur small losses in order to delay a large, upfront cost. For example, an economic agent might repeatedly delay editing a quizbowl tournament a week before the first mirror.
ANSWER: procrastination [or procrastinating or procrastinate; prompt on laziness or lazy or other synonyms] &lt;WC, Social Science&gt;
[10] This discounting model, proposed by David Laibson in 1997, introduces time-inconsistency by having agents discount at a rate beta times delta for the very next time period, but at a rate delta for each period after that.
ANSWER: quasi-hyperbolic discounting [prompt on hyperbolic discounting]
[10] Name this quantity used to determine the present value of income in the future, by dividing the future income by the sum of one plus this quantity, [pause] raised to the power of t, where t is the number of time periods in the future.
ANSWER: discount rate [or discount factor; accept discounting]

708.
ID: 38597  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature Other
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 13 (Finals 1) | Number: 3
BONUS: This group of people are “dazzled” by “rings sparkling with magnificent emeralds” and “elegant canes / beautifully worked in silver and gold.” For 10 points each:
[10] In a poem from the collection Jadis et naguère (“zhah-DEESE ay nah-GAIR”), this French poet wrote of an “Empire in decline” “that sees the tall, fair-haired Barbarians fall.” Claude Debussy took the name of “Clair de lune” from a poem by this author of the collection Poèmes saturniens.
ANSWER: Paul Verlaine (“vair-LEN”) &lt;AP, European Literature&gt;
[10] In the drama The Persians, this author describes how “terror fell” upon Xerxes and the rest of the namesake “barbarian” race at the hands of the Greeks. This ancient Greek tragedian also wrote the Oresteia.
ANSWER: Aeschylus
[10] Name this group of people “due here today” who “are bored by rhetoric and public speaking” in a poem that describes them as “a kind of solution.”
ANSWER: barbarians [or barbárous; or varvárous] (The poem is “Waiting for the Barbarians” by Constantine Cavafy.)

709.
ID: 38600  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 13 (Finals 1) | Number: 6
BONUS: A group of these people known as the Zaporozhian Host based in the lower Dnieper rebelled against Polish control during the Khmelnytsky uprising. For 10 points each:
[10] The Deluge also saw an invasion of Poland by this other country, which had been united with Poland in a personal union under John II’s father Sigismund III.
ANSWER: Sweden [or Sverige] &lt;AE, European History&gt;
[10] This Polish king defeated the Zaporozhian Host at the Battle of Beresteczko, but subsequently faced a Russian invasion in support of the Cossacks. The many invasions of Poland during his reign are known as the Deluge.
ANSWER: John II Casimir [or John Casimir]
[10] Name these nomadic people who often fought for Russia in exchange for political autonomy, though under leaders like Yemelyan Pugachev they sometimes revolted against the Russian government.
ANSWER: Cossacks [or Kozacy or Kazaky]

710.
ID: 38601  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Philosophy | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 13 (Finals 1) | Number: 7
BONUS: This thinker argued that mind-independent objects do not exist because we cannot conceive them, an argument dubbed his “master argument.” For 10 points each:
[10] This philosopher wrote a chapter-by-chapter rebuttal of Locke’s Essay Concerning Human Understanding. He maybe better known for his namesake law, which states that indiscernible objects are identical.
ANSWER: Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz &lt;JH, Philosophy&gt;
[10] Berkeley critiques the distinction Locke makes between the properties that an object has due to observers, and the properties it has intrinsically. Give the term for both.
ANSWER: primary qualities AND secondary qualities
[10] Name this Irish idealist who wrote Three Dialogues Between Hylas and Philonous.
ANSWER: George Berkeley (“BARK-lee”)

711.
ID: 38604  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Visual
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 13 (Finals 1) | Number: 10
BONUS: While in London, this artist painted a portrait of David Garrick sitting backwards in a chair. For 10 points each:
[10] Kauffman gained fame while working in Rome as a portrait painter for participants in this event, a gig that also made the career of Rosalba Carrera. Many young aristocrats in the 18th-century participated in this custom of journeying through Europe.
ANSWER: the Grand Tour &lt;JH, Painting &amp; Sculpture&gt;
[10] While living in London, Angelica Kauffman is rumored to have had an affair with this political figure. This French revolutionary’s murder in a bathtub was depicted by Jacques-Louis David.
ANSWER: Jean-Paul Marat (“mah-RAH”)
[10] Name this artist who depicted the mother of the Gracchi (“GRAH-kee”) brothers showing them off to another Roman mother in Cornelia Presenting Her Children as Her Treasures.
ANSWER: Angelica Kauffman

712.
ID: 38606  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 13 (Finals 1) | Number: 12
BONUS: In an essay, this author described how existentialist hipsters, whom he calls “philosophical psychopaths,” “absorbed” the “existentialist synapses” of black men after World War II. For 10 points each:
[10] Mailer’s description of jazz as the “music of orgasm” prefigures this author’s injunction to write “in accordance with laws of orgasm,” a technique that this author equated with that of jazz musicians in his manifesto “Essentials of Spontaneous Prose.”
ANSWER: Jack Kerouac &lt;AP, American Literature&gt;
[10] This author and friend of Mailer criticized Mailer’s use of the language of “deprived Negroes” to justify his ideas. This author of Go Tell it on the Mountain also wrote the essay collection Notes of a Native Son.
ANSWER: James Baldwin
[10] Name this author of the essay “The White Negro.” A novel by this author intentionally uses the euphemism “fug” in its depiction of an American regiment’s invasion of the fictional Filipino island Anopopei.
ANSWER: Norman Mailer (The novel is The Naked and the Dead.)

713.
ID: 38607  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History Classical
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 13 (Finals 1) | Number: 13
BONUS: This city fielded an elite military force of 150 pairs of gay lovers called the Sacred Band. For 10 points each:
[10] Thebes and its allies were decisively defeated at the Battle of Chaeronea by this commander, who spent his early life as a hostage in Thebes. His military innovations included the development of a long pike called a sarissa.
ANSWER: Philip II of Macedon [or Philip of Macedon; prompt on Philip] &lt;AE, European History&gt;
[10] This Theban general introduced the oblique tactics used at Leuctra, though he was later killed while leading Theban forces to victory over the Spartans again at the Battle of Mantinea.
ANSWER: Epaminondas
[10] Name this city that militarily dominated Greece after it crushed the Spartans at the Battle of Leuctra.
ANSWER: Thebes

714.
ID: 38608  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 13 (Finals 1) | Number: 14
BONUS: These species tend to have a high reproductive rate and dispersive ability. For 10 points each:
[10] In a cruel form of justice, zebra mussels originally from the Black Sea region are an invasive species in this North American aquatic ecosystem. Isle Royale, on which moose and wolves form an ideal predator–prey relationship, is located in this region.
ANSWER: the Great Lakes ecosystem [accept Lake Superior] &lt;GR, Biology&gt;
[10] The Black Sea experienced a large decline in anchovy population in the 1980s due to an invasive species of these organisms, Mnemiopsis leidyi (“nem-EE-op-sis lay-DEE-eye”). These organisms form a phylum distinct from cnidaria, despite having a similar appearance.
ANSWER: comb jellies [or ctenophores]
[10] Name these species that tend to outcompete local species for resources and often disrupt ecosystem function.
ANSWER: invasive species [prompt on introduced species]

715.
ID: 38609  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 13 (Finals 1) | Number: 15
BONUS: Some sources claim that this monarch conquered the Mon peoples’ city of Thaton (“tuh-TOHN”) simply because its ruler refused to send him a copy of the Pāli Canon. For 10 points each:
[10] Vijayabahu (“vih-jay-uh-BAH-hoo”), a king of this island, gifted Anawrahta a replica of the Buddha’s tooth after Anawrahta sent several monks to restore Buddhist rites. This island was later ruled by the Jaffna kingdom.
ANSWER: Sri Lanka [or Ceylon] &lt;AP, World History&gt;
[10] Upon his conversion to Theravada Buddhism, Anawrahta constructed many of these religious structures. The Shwedagon is the most sacred of these towered structures in Myanmar.
ANSWER: pagodas [accept stupas or zedi or phaya; accept Shwedagon Pagoda or Golden Pagoda]
[10] Name this monarch who founded the Pagan (“buh-GAHN”) kingdom in modern-day Myanmar after uniting the Burmese people of the Irrawaddy River valley.
ANSWER: Anawrahta (“un-OH-rah-dah”) [or Aniruddha]

716.
ID: 38610  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 13 (Finals 1) | Number: 16
BONUS: This oratorio’s completion was influenced by the death of its composer’s father Abraham, and it came a decade before the more popular <em>Elijah</em>. For 10 points each:
[10] Mendelssohn was only sixteen when he composed this chamber piece in E-flat major whose third movement may be based on Goethe’s Faust.
ANSWER: String Octet in E-flat major &lt;JN, Classical Music&gt;
[10] St. Paul is by this Romantic composer who re-popularized the music of J. S. Bach by conducting a noteworthy performance of the St. Matthew Passion. He also wrote the Scottish and Italian symphonies.
ANSWER: Felix Mendelssohn [or Jakob Ludwig Felix Mendelssohn-Bartholdy]
[10] Name this oratorio that uses four female singers to represent the voice of Jesus. A suite for string orchestra with a similar title contains “Jig” and “Ostinato” movements and rearranges an English dance tune from a suite for band.
ANSWER: St. Paul [or Paulus; accept St Paul’s Suite]

717.
ID: 38611  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Religion | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 13 (Finals 1) | Number: 17
BONUS: This book asserts that humanity has passed through a “social theory of life,” in which people only recognize life in their societies, into a “divine theory of life,” in which people recognize life in God. For 10 points each:
[10] The Kingdom of God is Within You takes its name from a quote from this book of the Bible. In its Sermon on the Plain, a shorter version of the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus commands the listener to turn the other cheek.
ANSWER: Gospel of Luke &lt;WC, Other&gt;
[10] This Indian activist credited The Kingdom of God is Within You as an inspiration in his autobiography The Story of My Experiments With Truth. He advocated a method of nonviolent resistance called satyagraha.
ANSWER: Mahatma Gandhi [or Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi]
[10] Name this book by Leo Tolstoy that advocates the doctrine of “non-resistance to evil by force.” It urges readers to establish the “greatest possible union between all living things” by recognizing and professing truth.
ANSWER: The Kingdom of God Is Within You [or Tsarstvo Bozhiye vnutri vas]

718.
ID: 38612  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 13 (Finals 1) | Number: 18
BONUS: At the end of a play by this author, the title character is sentenced by Aeacus to shake dice in a bottomless box forever, until Caligula appears, claims him as a slave, and gives him as a gift to Aeacus. For 10 points each:
[10] Seneca also wrote this moral essay, in which he notes, “It is not that we have a short space of time, but that we waste much of it.” It criticizes the “engrossed” whose pleasures leave them in busy idleness instead of leisure.
ANSWER: On the Shortness of Life [or De brevitate vitae] &lt;WC, World/Other Literature&gt;
[10] Seneca’s Pumpkinification is one of the few surviving examples of the “Menippean” type of this genre. The strain of this genre developed by Juvenal focuses on comically mocking social evils.
ANSWER: satire [accept more specific answers that mention satire]
[10] Name this author of Pumpkinification of the Divine Claudius. This author also wrote the Moral Epistles, a series of 124 letters addressed to his friend Lucilius.
ANSWER: Seneca the Younger [or Lucius Annaeus Seneca]

719.
ID: 38613  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Religion | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 13 (Finals 1) | Number: 19
BONUS: The first of these four concepts is <em>dukkha</em> (“DOOK-uh”), often translated as “suffering,” referring to pain and and dissatisfactions inherent to life itself. For 10 points each:
[10] By following the Eightfold Path, one can ultimately eliminate tanhā and achieve the goal of nirvāna, thus freeing oneself from this cycle of birth and rebirth.
ANSWER: samsāra (“sum-SAH-ruh”) &lt;WC, Religion&gt;
[10] Original language term required. This word, often translated into English as “thirst,” refers to the desires for sensual pleasures, existence, and non-existence that help give rise to dukkha.
ANSWER: tanhā (“TUN-hah”) [or trishnā] (Those are Pali and Sanskrit, respectively.)
[10] Name these four concepts central to Buddhism that were detailed in the Buddha’s first sermon. The last of these concepts, māgga (“MAH-guh”), is an “Eightfold Path” that can be followed to bring about the cessation of dukkha.
ANSWER: Four Noble Truths [or cattāri ariyasaccāni or catvāri āryasatyāni]

720.
ID: 38614  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 13 (Finals 1) | Number: 20
BONUS: The <em>Phoenix</em> Mars lander included the TEGA instrument, which can perform this technique on soil samples. For 10 points each:
[10] This form of mass spec analyzes sputtered particles ejected by a primary beam to study the composition of a surface or thin film.
ANSWER: secondary ion mass spectrometry [or SIMS] &lt;AE, Chemistry&gt;
[10] Samples must be ionized for use in mass spec. In this technique, samples are integrated into a crystal and ionized with light. Like electrospray ionization, this is a “soft” technique that causes relatively little fragmentation.
ANSWER: MALDI [or matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization]
[10] Name this analytical chemistry technique that separates particles based on their mass-to-charge ratio.
ANSWER: mass spectrometry [or MS]

721.
ID: 38615  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature European
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 14 (Finals 2) | Number: 1
BONUS: The title character of one of this author’s plays works with the Cauliflower Trust to expand his cauliflower empire. For 10 points each:
[10] In a vignette from Fear and Misery of the Third Reich, X and Y read a work by this man before realizing they must denounce it as a “typical piece of misplaced Jewish ingenuity.” A spy who pretends to think he’s this man attempts to recruit Möbius to the Soviet Union in another play.
ANSWER: Albert Einstein (The second play is Friedrich Dürrenmatt’s The Physicists.) &lt;VS, European Literature&gt;
[10] Arturo Ui fictionalizes Hitler as a gangster from this country, where Brecht lived during World War II. Brecht’s epic theater style was influenced by a film from this country, Charlie Chaplin’s The Gold Rush.
ANSWER: United States of America [or United States of America; or USA]
[10] Name this author of The Resistible Rise of Arturo Ui. This playwright’s other anti-Nazi works include a set of 24 short plays titled Fear and Misery of the Third Reich.
ANSWER: Bertolt Brecht

722.
ID: 38618  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 14 (Finals 2) | Number: 4
BONUS: Maxwell corrected this law by adding the displacement current term. For 10 points each:
[10] Ampère’s law specifies the curl of B, but the divergence of B is zero according to another of Maxwell’s equations, making it this type of field, which can be derived from a vector potential.
ANSWER: solenoidal (vector) field [prompt on divergence-free] &lt;GR, Physics&gt;
[10] The differential form of Ampère’s law says that current is proportional to this vector operation applied to B. This operation is applied to the vector potential to calculate the magnetic field.
ANSWER: curl [accept the curl of B; accept del cross B; do not accept or prompt on “del”]
[10] Name this law from Maxwell’s equations that includes the current density as the source for the magnetic field.
ANSWER: Ampère’s law

723.
ID: 38621  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 14 (Finals 2) | Number: 7
BONUS: This element combines with iron to form the minerals troilite and pyrite. For 10 points each:
[10] This other class of air pollutants produces acid rain and smog. The production of these compounds during combustions is described by the Zeldovich mechanism, and they are produced naturally by thunderstorms.
ANSWER: nitrogen oxides [or NOx (“nox”) or NO-sub-x] &lt;GR, Other Science: Earth Science&gt;
[10] Sulfur dioxide air pollution is a major cause of this phenomenon when it combines with precipitation. This phenomenon causes soil and water damage and corrosion of metal structures.
ANSWER: acid rain
[10] Name this element found in crystals that form near volcanic fumaroles.
ANSWER: sulfur [or S]

724.
ID: 38623  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 14 (Finals 2) | Number: 9
BONUS: Chicago construction worker Marc Smith is credited with inventing this genre of poetry, which is often associated with New York’s Nuyorican Poets Café. For 10 points each:
[10] The founders of the Nuyorican Poets Café include Ntozake Shange (“EN-toh-zah-kee SHON-gay”), who wrote a choreopoem whose female characters, each dressed in different colors, represent one of these natural phenomena.
ANSWER: rainbow &lt;CK, American Literature&gt;
[10] This author won the first ever Grand Poetry Slam at the Nuyorican Poets Café. He wrote about a narrator who attempts to reintroduce slavery in suburban Los Angeles in his 2015 novel The Sellout.
ANSWER: Paul Beatty
[10] Name this poetry genre in which poems are read aloud by their authors and then judged by the audience.
ANSWER: slam poetry [prompt on spoken word poetry]

725.
ID: 38626  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Chemistry
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 14 (Finals 2) | Number: 12
BONUS: Answer the following about total synthesis, for 10 points each.
[10] This technique developed by E. J. Corey is useful in planning total a synthesis. It starts from the target molecule and works backwards to simple, commercially available compounds.
ANSWER: retrosynthesis [or retrosynthetic analysis] &lt;GR, Chemistry&gt;
[10] Woodward and Eschenmoser (“ESH-en-moh-zer”) developed a total synthesis of vitamin B12, which includes a cobalt ion complexed to this macrocyclic molecule. This conjugated molecule has a similar structure to porphyrin.
ANSWER: corrin
[10] This biological compound’s synthesis from inorganic materials helped disprove vitalism. It is formed in vivo in the liver to excrete waste ammonia.
ANSWER: urea

726.
ID: 38627  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 14 (Finals 2) | Number: 13
BONUS: According to legend, this emperor was saved by an angel, transformed into marble, and concealed in a grotto near the Golden Gate where he sleeps until he awakes to fight the Turks. For 10 points each:
[10] In 1480, Mehmed II unsuccessfully attempted to capture this island off of the coast of Anatolia from the Knights Hospitaller. This island was later captured during the reign of Suleiman the Magnificent.
ANSWER: Rhodes [or Rhodos] &lt;JH, European History&gt;
[10] This Ottoman sultan captured Constantinople from Constantine XI. This sultan hired the Hungarian engineer Orban to build him cannons for use in the siege.
ANSWER: Mehmed II [or Mehmed the Conqueror; or Mehmet II; or Mehmet the Conqueror]
[10] Name this last Byzantine emperor who was killed in 1453 while fighting against the Ottomans. In reference to the aforementioned legend, he is sometimes called the “Marble King.”
ANSWER: Constantine XI Palaeologus [accept Constantine XII Palaeologus]

727.
ID: 38628  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Social Science | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 14 (Finals 2) | Number: 14
BONUS: A theorem states that “rotten” members of these groups will maximize the utility of the entire group so long as it benefits them. For 10 points each:
[10] The Division of Labor in Society argues that anomie arises when the division of labor fails to produce this sort of social cohesion that arises because individuals are dependent on other individuals to perform specialized jobs.
ANSWER: organic solidarity [prompt on solidarity; do not accept “mechanical solidarity”] &lt;CK, Social Science&gt;
[10] This French sociologist argued that primitive societies maintain order through a “conscience collective” in his magnum opus, The Division of Labor in Society.
ANSWER: Émile Durkheim (“dur-KEM”)
[10] Name this group that is the subject of an economic “treatise” by Gary Becker. In its chapter on the division of labor, Becker argues that agents in this group should specialize by investing in different kinds of capital.
ANSWER: the family [or families; accept A Treatise on the Family]

728.
ID: 38629  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 14 (Finals 2) | Number: 15
BONUS: Since these poets were massive Ben Jonson fans, they are sometimes called the “Tribe of Ben.” For 10 points each:
[10] This Cavalier poet depicted Apollo presiding over a meeting of poets who debate who should be bestowed with a laurel wreath in his poem “A Session of the Poets,” but he is best-known for the lyrics in his play Aglaura.
ANSWER: John Suckling &lt;CK, British Literature&gt;
[10] The Cavalier poet Richard Lovelace’s experience of fighting for Charles I in the Bishops’ Wars informed his poem “To Lucasta,” which ends with the speaker declaring, “I could not love thee, dear, so much, / Loved I not [this concept] more.”
ANSWER: honor
[10] Name these poets that included Robert Herrick and Richard Lovelace. Their name refers to the fact that they supported Charles I during the English Civil War.
ANSWER: Cavalier poets

729.
ID: 38630  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 14 (Finals 2) | Number: 16
BONUS: One of these manuscripts contains a well-known arrangement of the aria “Bist du bei mir” from Gottfried Heinrich Stölzel’s (“SHTULT-sull’s”) opera <em>Diomedes</em>. For 10 points each:
[10] Australian musicologist Martin Jarvis has advanced the dubious theory that Anna Magdalena Bach composed these six Bach compositions for a solo string instrument that were popularized by Pablo Casals (“kuh-ZALLS”).
ANSWER: Cello Suites [or Suites for Solo Cello; or BWV 1007–1012] &lt;CK, Classical Music&gt;
[10] The 1725 notebook contains a version of a piece of this type that opens with a repeated C major arpeggio and opens J. S. Bach’s Well-Tempered Clavier, which pairs these short pieces with fugues in all 24 keys.
ANSWER: preludes [or praeludium]
[10] Give the title shared by two manuscripts that compile music by several composers, including a Minuet in G major that scholars now believe was written by Christian Petzold.
ANSWER: Notebook for Anna Magdalena Bach [or Notenbüchlein für Anna Magdalena Bach; or Anna Magdalena’s Notebooks]

730.
ID: 38631  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Philosophy | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 14 (Finals 2) | Number: 17
BONUS: St. Anselm first presented this argument in his <em>Proslogion</em>. For 10 points each:
[10] Alvin Plantinga presented a “victorious” ontological argument in one of these logics called S5. Saul Kripke invented a semantics for these logics based on an accessibility relation between possible worlds.
ANSWER: modal logics &lt;CK, Philosophy&gt;
[10] Gaunilo ridiculed Anselm’s ontological argument, arguing that it would entail the existence of a “lost” one of these things.
ANSWER: island
[10] Name this argument for the existence of God that contends that God must exist because a “being than which nothing greater can be conceived” would not be the greatest if it existed only in the mind.
ANSWER: ontological argument

731.
ID: 38632  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 14 (Finals 2) | Number: 18
BONUS: Numerous examples of these molecules bind to RTKs during cell signaling. For 10 points each:
[10] Class II (“two”) RTKs are activated by this peptide hormone produced in the pancreas. This hormone opposes the action of glucagon, and type II (“two”) diabetes results from insensitivity to this hormone.
ANSWER: insulin &lt;GR, Biology&gt;
[10] RTKs are an examples of these enzymes, which catalyze the transfer of a phosphate group from ATP to a target molecule.
ANSWER: kinases [accept receptor tyrosine kinases]
[10] Name this class of signaling proteins that controls cell proliferation. These proteins come in platelet-derived and fibroblastic classes.
ANSWER: growth factors [or GFs]

732.
ID: 38633  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Geography | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 14 (Finals 2) | Number: 19
BONUS: The production of this crop was the focus of an unsuccessful “Mega” project undertaken by the Indonesian government in the 1990s. For 10 points each:
[10] The Dayak people grow the unique Bario rice variety in this Malaysian state in Borneo’s northwest. This state shares its name with a kingdom once ruled by the Brooke family, who were known as the White Rajahs.
ANSWER: Sarawak &lt;AP, Other&gt;
[10] The Mega Rice Project attempted to turn peatlands and forests in Kalimantan, the portion of this island administered by Indonesia, into rice paddies.
ANSWER: Borneo
[10] Name this crop grown in Indonesia and Malaysia on irrigated paddies called sawahs, which can yield two or three harvests of this crop per year. This crop is often grown in terraces on hilly terrain.
ANSWER: rice [accept specific types like basmati, jasmine, and brown rice]

733.
ID: 38635  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History European
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 15 (Tiebreakers) | Number: 1
BONUS: After being accidentally left alone aboard a prototype of these vehicles, Jacques Charles (“zhahk sharl”) wrote “Never has a man felt so solitary, so sublime – and so utterly terrified.” For 10 points each:
[10] Following the Franco-Prussian War, this French statesman escaped Paris by floating over the Germans with a balloon. He established the Third Republic’s Government of National Defense.
ANSWER: Léon Gambetta &lt;AP, European History&gt;
[10] During this battle, the French aeronaut Eugène Godard used a balloon for reconnaissance of the opposing Austrian army. The bloodshed at this battle inspired Henri Dunant (“on-REE due-NAWN”) to found the International Red Cross.
ANSWER: Battle of Solferino
[10] Name these lighter-than-air vehicles that started a 1780s “mania” after their invention by the Montgolfier brothers. Charles and the Robert (“roh-BAIR”) brothers built the first one of these vehicles to use hydrogen.
ANSWER: balloons [or hot air balloons; or hydrogen balloons]

734.
ID: 38637  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature World
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 15 (Tiebreakers) | Number: 3
BONUS: In one of this author’s novels, Xu Sanguan (“shoo san-gwen”) discovers that his first son, Yile (“yee-luh”), is illegitimate. For 10 points each:
[10] In The Plum in the Golden Vase, Ximen Qing (“shee-mun cheeng”) is a wealthy merchant who first appeared in this other classical Chinese novel, about Song Jiang (“sung j’yong”) and his band of 108 outlaws.
ANSWER: Water Margin [or Shui Hu Zhuan; or All Men Are Brothers; or Outlaws of the Marsh; or Tale of the Marshes; or Men of the Marshes; or The Marshes of Mount Liang] &lt;JS, World/Other Literature&gt;
[10] This poet “translated” a poem by Li Bai that begins while the speaker’s “hair was still cut straight across [her] forehead”; that poem is “The River Merchant’s Wife.”
ANSWER: Ezra Pound
[10] Name this author of Chronicle of a Blood Merchant. He wrote a novel about Xu Fugui (“shoo foo-gway”), who survives the Cultural Revolution after gambling away his father’s fortune in To Live.
ANSWER: Yu Hua [or Hua Yu]

735.
ID: 38638  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History World
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 15 (Tiebreakers) | Number: 4
BONUS: Answer the following about the British Empire’s activity in modern-day Argentina before the Falklands War. For 10 points each:
[10] This company, founded by Robert Harley, proposed a British capture of Buenos Aires in 1711. A decade later, speculation about this company’s proposal to take over the national debt led to a namesake “bubble.”
ANSWER: South Sea Company [accept South Sea Bubble] &lt;AP, World History&gt;
[10] In 1845, Great Britain and France blockaded the Río de la Plata to support José Fructuoso Rivera, a leader of this Uruguayan political party, against the Argentine-supported Manuel Oribe.
ANSWER: Colorado Party [or Partido Colorado; accept Red Party]
[10] Great Britain agreed to maintain purchases of this commodity from Argentina in the Roca-Runciman Agreement. Argentine gauchos in the Pampas helped produce this commodity on ranches called estancias.
ANSWER: beef [or cows or cattle; prompt on meat]

736.
ID: 38639  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Trash | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 15 (Tiebreakers) | Number: 5
BONUS: The poet Vallathol (“VUH-luh-thohl”) is credited with the revival of a form of dance from this state whose five stock characters include “Knife,” “Beard,” and “Black.” For 10 points each:
[10] Kathakali tradition dictates 24 primary mudrās, which are expressed by manipulating this body part. Carnatic vocalists often keep tāla, or rhythm, by moving this body part.
ANSWER: hands [accept fingers] &lt;AP, Other Arts&gt;
[10] Three instruments of this type are used in musical accompaniments to Kathakali. The damaru, mridangam, and tabla are other Indian types of these percussion instruments.
ANSWER: drums [prompt on percussion until read]
[10] Name this state whose traditional dance forms include Mohiniyattam (“MO-hee-nee-yuh-tum”) and the aforementioned Kathakali (“KUH-thuh-kuh-lee”), whose performers wear a thick white facial border and green makeup when they play heroic characters.
ANSWER: Kerala (“CARE-uh-luh”) [or Keralam]

737.
ID: 38641  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Physics
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 15 (Tiebreakers) | Number: 7
BONUS: These devices have a Fourier transforming property for transmissive objects placed a focal length away. For 10 points each:
[10] This other approximation neglects the length of the lens along the optical axis. In this approximation, the focal length of a lens is the index of refraction minus one times the difference of the reciprocal radii of curvature.
ANSWER: thin lens approximation [accept thin lens equation] &lt;SY, Physics&gt;
[10] The Fourier transforming property of lenses is valid in this approximation in which rays make a small angle with respect to the optical axis.
ANSWER: paraxial approximation
[10] Name these devices that focus light through refraction. They are called converging if they have convex geometry.
ANSWER: lenses

738.
ID: 38642  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 15 (Tiebreakers) | Number: 8
BONUS: Franklin D. Roosevelt frequently mocked this politician’s lisp, stating on one occasion, “if [this politician] says ‘Oh Chwist’ again, I’m going to scream.” For 10 points each:
[10] FDR said that quote to this Secretary of Labor, the first woman to serve in the Cabinet. After witnessing the Triangle Shirtwaist Factory fire, she became executive secretary of the Committee of Safety in New York.
ANSWER: Frances Perkins [or Fannie Coralie Perkins] &lt;AP, American History&gt;
[10] Through Hull initially drafted the UN Charter, the UN was not formally established until a conference held in this US city, which was attended by Hull’s successor Edward Reilly Stettinius, Jr.
ANSWER: San Francisco
[10] Name this Tennessean who served as FDR’s Secretary of State. He implemented the Good Neighbor Policy to improve relations with Latin America and drafted the United Nations Charter.
ANSWER: Cordell Hull

739.
ID: 38643  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Religion | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 15 (Tiebreakers) | Number: 9
BONUS: In this country’s national church, married men are allowed to be ordained as priests and are given the title of <em>kahana</em>. For 10 points each:
[10] According to legend, Christianity was first introduced to Armenia when Agbar V of Osroene (“oss-ro-EE-nee”) wrote to Jesus about his miracles and received this miraculous portrait of Jesus that was supposedly imprinted on a towel.
ANSWER: Mandylion [or Image of Edessa] &lt;WC, Religion&gt;
[10] The Armenian Church is partly named after these disciples of Jesus and leaders of early Christianity. The history of the early Christian church is recorded in a book of their “Acts.”
ANSWER: apostles [or apostolic]
[10] Name this country whose church is traditionally said to have been established by Thaddeus and Bartholomew. Like the Coptic Church, this country’s church does not recognize the Council of Chalcedon.
ANSWER: Armenia [or Hayastan; accept Armenian Apostolic Church or Armenian Orthodox Church]

740.
ID: 38646  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature American
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 15 (Tiebreakers) | Number: 12
BONUS: In a novel, a butterfly lands on the coffin of Rufus’s father, who dies in this manner soon after Rufus’s great-aunt buys Rufus a cap. For 10 points each:
[10] In this author’s novel The Shipping News, Quoyle’s newspaper articles cover fabricated car accidents. This author wrote about the relationship between two young men on a Wyoming sheep farm in “Brokeback Mountain.”
ANSWER: E. Annie Proulx (“proo”) [or Edna Annie Proulx] &lt;AP, American Literature&gt;
[10] In this F. Scott Fitzgerald novel, Daisy Buchanan strikes and kills Myrtle Wilson while driving a car owned by the title character.
ANSWER: The Great Gatsby
[10] Name this manner in which Jay Follett dies in James Agee’s novel A Death in the Family. In a J. G. Ballard novel, Dr. Robert Vaughan oversees a group of people who are sexually aroused by dying in this manner.
ANSWER: dying in a car accident [accept car crash or automotive accident in place of “car accident”; prompt on dying in a collision or crash or accident by asking “involving what objects?”; do not accept “airplane crash” or “train crash”] (The novel is Crash.)

741.
ID: 38647  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 15 (Tiebreakers) | Number: 13
BONUS: While conducting a blockade of Charleston, this pirate took Samuel Wragg hostage in an attempt to bargain for medicine. For 10 points each:
[10] Another pirate based out of Nassau was “Calico Jack” Rackham, whose crew had two female pirates who escaped execution because they were found to be pregnant. Name either of the two women.
ANSWER: Anne Bonny OR Mary Read [accept Anne Cormac in place of “Anne Bonny”; accept Mark Read in place of “Mary Read”] &lt;AE, European History&gt;
[10] Blackbeard was mentored by the pirate Benjamin Hornigold, who started a “pirate republic” based in this city that lasted until the arrival of Woodes Rogers as this city’s governor.
ANSWER: Nassau
[10] Name this pirate, whose ship, the Queen Anne’s Revenge, was discovered in 1996. This pirate supposedly put lit fuses in his beard to intimidate enemies.
ANSWER: Blackbeard [or Edward Teach or Edward Thatch]

742.
ID: 38648  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 15 (Tiebreakers) | Number: 14
BONUS: These locations were thought to be haunted by the forest spirit Chullachaqui (“choo-ya-CHAH-kee”), though their lack of biodiversity is actually the result of ants that poison all other plants in the area. For 10 points each:
[10] The M. schumanni ants poison plants using this chemical, which was first isolated from ants. This chemical is the simplest carboxylic acid.
ANSWER: formic acid [or methanoic acid or HCO2H] &lt;JH, Other&gt;
[10] The aforementioned ants of the M. schumanni species and the trees exist in this relationship, in which both organisms benefit from the interaction.
ANSWER: mutualism [or mutualistic; prompt on symbiosis]
[10] Name these locations in the Amazon rainforest that only contain Duroia hirsuta trees, which grow galls inside of which the ants make colonies.
ANSWER: Devil’s gardens [or Jardín del Curupira or supay-chakra]

743.
ID: 38649  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Literature | Subcategory: Literature British
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 15 (Tiebreakers) | Number: 15
BONUS: In this novel, Sariette (“sar-YET”), the curator of the d’Esparvieu (“dess-par-VIEW”) family library, goes insane after he murders his friend Père Guinardon (“pair ghee-nar-DON”) to steal a lost <em>Lucretius</em> once owned by the Prior de Vendôme (“von-DOME”). For 10 points each:
[10] In the last chapter, this character tells the rebellious angels to destroy ignorance and fear in themselves instead of revolting. In Milton’s Paradise Lost, this character declares, “Better to reign in Hell, than serve in Heaven.”
ANSWER: Satan [or the Devil] &lt;WC, European Literature&gt;
[10] The Revolt of the Angels was written by this French author who also wrote a novel featuring a mass baptism of penguins who are subsequently transformed into men, Penguin Island.
ANSWER: Anatole France [or François-Antoine Thibault]
[10] Name this novel in which Arcade (“ar-KAHD”) abandons his ward Maurice d’Esparvieu in his quest to overthrow God, whom Arcade considers to be a “vain and ignorant demiurge.”
ANSWER: The Revolt of the Angels [or La Révolte des anges]

744.
ID: 38650  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Science | Subcategory: Science Biology
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 15 (Tiebreakers) | Number: 16
BONUS: Like DNA repair, this process depends upon the Artemis nuclease, as well as RAG1 and RAG2 proteins. For 10 points each:
[10] T-cell receptors recognize antigens presented by surface proteins from this complex. All nucleated cells express proteins from the class I form of this complex, while only “professional antigen presenting cells” express the class II version.
ANSWER: MHC [or major histocompatibility complex accept MHC class I or MHC class II] &lt;VS, Biology&gt;
[10] V(D)J Recombination also diversifies these cells’ namesake receptors. These lymphocytes mature in the thymus, and CD8 is expressed on the surface of their “cytotoxic” variety.
ANSWER: T cells [accept T-cell receptors or cytotoxic T cells]
[10] Name this process that follows the 12/23 rule. It creates diverse products used in heavy and light chains.
ANSWER: V(D)J recombination [or VJ recombination; prompt on somatic recombination]

745.
ID: 38651  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: History | Subcategory: History American
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 15 (Tiebreakers) | Number: 17
BONUS: This book argues that while US political parties strongly favor the wealthy, Republicans wear “black hats,” whereas Democrats wear “grey hats.” For 10 points each:
[10] Since first-past-the-post voting leads to many wasted votes, it is more susceptible to this practice in which district boundaries are manipulated to favor one party or group over another.
ANSWER: gerrymandering &lt;CK, Social Science&gt;
[10] This plurality voting system is often called “winner-take-all.” In this system, voters pick a single candidate and the candidate with the most votes wins. It usually results in a two-party system due to Duverger’s (“doo-vair-ZHAY’s”) law.
ANSWER: first-past-the-post voting [or FPTP voting or FPP voting]
[10] Name this 2010 book by political scientists Jacob Hacker and Paul Pierson, which argues that income inequality in the United States is largely a product of political forces.
ANSWER: Winner-Take-All Politics [or Winner-Take-All Politics: How Washington Made the Rich Richer—and Turned Its Back on the Middle Class]

746.
ID: 38652  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Philosophy | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 15 (Tiebreakers) | Number: 18
BONUS: This paper argues that physicalism cannot capture the “subjective character of experience,” using the example of a creature with a radically different sensory apparatus. For 10 points each:
[10] In a thought experiment, Frank Jackson argued that qualia exist because Mary the scientist learns something when she first perceives these things. Individuals systematically differ in how they perceive these things in a thought experiment called the “inverted spectrum.”
ANSWER: colors (The first thought experiment is Mary’s Room.) &lt;CK, Philosophy&gt;
[10] David Chalmers dubbed the “hard problem of consciousness” explaining how and why creatures have these subjective conscious experiences.
ANSWER: qualia
[10] Name this 1974 Thomas Nagel paper that critiques reductionism, arguing “consciousness is what makes the mind-body problem really intractable.”
ANSWER: “What Is it Like to Be a Bat?”

747.
ID: 38654  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Mythology | Subcategory: None
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 15 (Tiebreakers) | Number: 20
BONUS: Answer some questions about groupings of successively decreasing numbers of gods, for 10 points each.
[10] The Shichi Fukujin are the seven gods of this concept in Japanese mythology. This concept is also represented by Tyche (“TYKE-ee”), as symbolized by her cornucopia and ship’s rudder.
ANSWER: luck [or fortune] &lt;JS, Mythology&gt;
[10] This group of Chinese deities includes one whose apotheosis came about after eating powdered mica, as well as one whose body was cremated by a student while his spirit was wandering, Iron Crutch Li.
ANSWER: Eight Immortals [or bā xiān]
[10] The Ennead was a group of nine deities worshipped by this ancient civilization. This civilization’s deities included Atum, Osiris, and Seth.
ANSWER: Egypt

748.
ID: 38655  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Audiovisual
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 16 (Scrapped extras) | Number: 1
BONUS: The final aria of this opera, which begins “Mourn for thy servant, mighty God of Love,” is sung by a chorus following the death of one of the title characters. For 10 points each:
[10] Both Purcell and Blow composed odes to this patron saint of Music. Purcell’s Te Deum, which was composed for this saint’s feast day, was the first English-language Te Deum with orchestral accompaniment.
ANSWER: Saint Cecilia [accept Ode to St. Cecilia or Ode for St. Cecilia’s Day] &lt;AE, Classical Music&gt;
[10] John Blow taught this English composer whose opera Dido and Aeneas contains the aria “When I am laid in earth.”
ANSWER: Henry Purcell (“PUR-sull”)
[10] Name this opera, often considered the earliest surviving English opera, composed by John Blow.
ANSWER: Venus and Adonis

749.
ID: 38656  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Audiovisual
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 16 (Scrapped extras) | Number: 2
BONUS: After an overture played on twelve car horns, this opera’s first act opens with Piet the Pot drunkenly hiccuping his way through the Dies Irae. For 10 points each:
[10] In Le Grand Macabre, Ligeti satirizes this regime’s secret police as the “Gepopo.” This regime opened their Nuremberg Rallies with the overture from Wagner’s opera Rienzi (“ree-ENT-see”).
ANSWER: Nazi Germany [or Third Reich] &lt;CK, Other Arts&gt;
[10] An extensively revised version of Le Grand Macabre was premiered at this festival in 1997. A staging of Hugo von Hofmannsthal’s Everyman is the centerpiece of this festival held annually in Mozart’s hometown.
ANSWER: Salzburg Festival
[10] Name this bizarre opera by György Ligeti (“JURJ LIG-uh-tee”) in which Nekrotzar destroys Breughelland.
ANSWER: Le Grand Macabre

750.
ID: 38657  | Difficulty: Regular College | Category: Fine Arts | Subcategory: Fine Arts Auditory
Tournament: 2019 Terrapin | Round: 16 (Scrapped extras) | Number: 3
BONUS: These instruments are told to play with “a certain menacing character” throughout a certain symphony. For 10 points each:
[10] Nielsen’s “Inextinguishable” Symphony is of this number, and Nielsen’s Second Symphony is named for this number of “temperaments.” This is the typical number of movements in a symphony.
ANSWER: four [or 4; accept Fourth Symphony or “The Four Temperaments”] &lt;VS, Classical Music&gt;
[10] That timpani duel occurs in this Danish composer’s “Inextinguishable” Symphony. He wrote the operas Maskarade and Saul og David.
ANSWER: Carl Nielsen
[10] Name these instruments, two of which “duel” on opposing sides of the stage by playing tritones before a “glorioso” coda in a certain symphony.
ANSWER: timpani [or kettledrums]

